29th—English of America—sir, it is light, unreserved and accessible—grew
dear again. My love of it returned like the glow in a brazier that I had
watched passionately, then left all the Summer days, and to which I
turned my apologetic face with Winter’s approaching steps.

Oya, oya, my book of Longfellow under the heavy coat of dust!

I dusted the book with care and veneration as I did a wee image of the
Lord a month ago.

The same old gentle face of ’Merican poet—a poet need not always to
sing, I assure you, of tragic lamentation and of “far-beyond”—stared at
me from its frontispiece. I wondered if he ever dreamed his volume would
be opened on the tiny brown palms of a Japan girl. A sudden fancy came
to me as if he—the spirit of his picture—flung his critical impressive
eyes at my elaborate cue with coral-headed pin, or upon my face.

Am I not a lovely young lady?

I had thrown Longfellow, many months ago, on the top shelf where a grave
spider was encamping, and given every liberty to that reticent,
studious, silver-haired gentleman Mr. Moth to tramp around the
“Arcadie.”

Mr. Moth ran out without giving his own “honourable” impression of the
popular poet, when I let the pages flutter.

Large fatherly poet he is, but not unique. Uniqueness, however, has
become commonplace.

Poet of “plain” plainness is he—plainness in thought and colour. Even
his elegance is plain enough.

I must read Mr. Longfellow again as I used a year ago reclining in the
Spring breeze,—“A Psalm of Life,” “The Village Blacksmith,” and half a
dozen snatches from “Evangeline” or “The Song of Hiawatha” at the least.
That is not because I am his devotee—I confess the poet of my taste
isn’t he—but only because he is a great idol of American ladies, as I am
often told, and I may suffer the accusation of idiocy in America, if I
be not charming enough to quote lines from his work.