July 3rd, hor. 12¼, Arthur Dee fell from the top of the Water-gate
Stayres down to the fote from the top, and cut his forhed on the
right eyebrow. Sir Richard browght the rent. July 6th, in feare of
resting by proctor Lewys: tyll 9½ at night from 1 afternone at the
Docter’s comming. July 12th, Proctor Lewys agred withall. July 13th,
Mr. Talbot cam abowt 3 of the clok afternone, with whom I had some
wordes of unkendnes: we parted frendely: he sayd that the Lord
Morley had the Lord Mountegle his bokes. He promised me some of
Doctor Myniver’s bokes. July 16th, Mr. William Pole, whome Phillip
Simons, somtymes barber to the old Erle of Tavistok, doth knowe, cam
to me, and made acquayntance with me: promised to com agayn within
xiiij. dayes. Jane my wife went to Nurse Garret’s to pay her 12_s._
for her wages due tyll Friday last, which was Saint Margaret’s day,
and brought her xij_d._ for candles: she went by water; Mistres Lee
went with her, and Robyn Jackesbite. Jane this night was sore
trubbled with a collick and cramp in her belly; she vomyted this
Monday more, and every night grew stiff in the sole likewise.
A meridie hor. 3½ cam Sir George Peckham to me to know the tytle
for Norombega in respect of Spayn and Portugall parting the whole
world’s distilleryes. He promysed me of his gift and of his patient
....... of the new conquest, and thought to get so moche of Mr.
Gerardes gift to be sent me with seale within a few days. July 18th,
Barthilmew Knaresburgh his sone borne at break of day abowt 3 of the
clok. June 19th, Barnabas Saul came to see me at Mortlak: I chyd hym
for his manifold untrue reports. July 23d, Mistris Franklin’s sone
borne at noone. July 24th, Robert Gardiner cam, and went on the
26th.