Aug. 22nd, Ann my nurse had long byn tempted by a wycked spirit: but
this day it was evident how she was possessed of him. God is, hath
byn, and shall be her protector and deliverer! Amen. Aug. 25th, Anne
Frank was sorowfol, well comforted and stayed in Godâ€™s mercyes
acknowledging. Aug. 26th, at night I anoynted (in the name of Jesus)
Ann Frank her brest with the holy oyle. Aug. 30th, in the morning
she required to be anoynted, and I did very devowtly prepare myself,
and pray for vertue and powr and Christ his blessing of the oyle to
the expulsion of the wycked; and then twyse anoynted, the wycked one
did resest a while. Sept. 1st, I receyved letters from Sir Edward
Kelley by Francis Garland. Sept. 8th, Nurse Anne Frank wold have
drowned hirself in my well, but by divine Providence I cam to take
her up befor she was overcome of the water. Sept. 23rd, Sonday,
I gave Nurse Barwyk six shillings for a monthis wages to ende on
Wensday comme a fortnight; Mrs. Stackden was by. Sept. 29th, Nurse
Anne Frank most miserably did cut her owne throte, afternone abowt
four of the clok, pretending to be in prayer before her keeper, and
suddenly and very quickly rising from prayer, and going toward her
chamber, as the mayden her keper thowght, but indede straight way
down the stayrs into the hall of the other howse, behinde the doore,
did that horrible act; and the mayden who wayted on her at the
stayr-fote followed, her, and missed to fynde her in three or fowr
places, tyll at length she hard her rattle in her owne blud.