Oct. 13th, I exhibited to the Archbishop of Canterbury two bokes of
blasphemie against Christ and the Holy Ghoste, desyring him to cause
them to be confuted: one was Christian Franken, printed anno 1585 in
Poland; the other was of one Sombius against one Carolius, printed
at Ingolstad anno 1582 in octavo. Oct. 14th, 15th, a mighty wynde at
sowth-west. Oct. 30th, 31st, one of these two dayes I hurt my left
shyn against the sharp small end of a wooden rammar abowt four of
the clok afternone. Nov. 1st, Mr. Ashly, his wife, and their
familie, did com to my howse and remayned ther. They had my mother’s
chamber, the mayde’s chamber, and all the other howse. Nov. 9th, Her
Majestie’s grant of my supplication for commissioners to comme to
me. The Lady Warwik obteyned it. Nov. 22nd, the commissioners from
Her Majestie, Mr. Secretary Wolly and Sir Thomas George, cam to
Mortlak to my howse. Nov. 28th, to Richard Walkdyne of his wagis
20_s._ Dec. 1st, a little after none the very vertuous Cowntess of
Warwik sent me word very speedily by hir gentleman Mr. Jones from
the cowrt at Hampton Cowrt that this day Her Majestie had granted to
send me spedily an hundred marks, and that Sir Thomas George had
very honorably dealt for me in the cause. Dec. 2nd, Sir Thomas
George browght me a hundred marks from her Majestie. Dec. 24th to
31st, at Mr. Lurensey of Tooting all these days, and Newyere’s Day
allso, and so cam home by coach (as we went) by Tuesday none, I, my
wyfe, Arthur, Kate, &c. Dec. 31st, at Tooting at Mr. R. Luresey his
howse; abowt thre of the clok after dynner dyd the Bishop of Laigham
serve process uppon me for the nangle, but most unduely.