April 3rd, Bartilmew Hikman and Robert Charles cam up. Letice cam
with Barthilmew, and went away agayn. April 8th, Letice cam agayn
from Barnet to my servyse. I receyved £50 of Mr. Nichols. April 9th,
I gave Barthilmew Hikman £12 in new angels to give and pay to Robert
Charles, which he had payd for him at Michelmas last. I gave him
allso a double pistolet for his courtesy. Little Adolph Webbes cam
to me. April 10th, Barthilmew and Robert Charles went homward. May
7th, Thomas Richardson of Bissham cam to Mortlak to me. May 9th, he
and Mr. Laward of the Chandry cam. Our court day at Wymbledon. May
11th, mane hora octava William Emery of Danbery in Essex became my
retayner at Mortlak, commended by Mr. Thanet of Rushmer by Ypswich,
borne 1568, Julii 4. I gave Robert Web 10_s._ Richard 10_s._ and
Elizabeth 3_s._ in the begynning of this month. May 21st, be it
remembered that on this xxj. day of May I bargayned with and bowght
of Mr. Mark Perpoint, of Mortlak, that next mansion howse with the
plat, and all the appertenances abowt it for £32, as the sayd Mr.
Perpoint of late had at the last court-day bowght it, and had
surrender of it unto him made of Thomas Knaresborowgh for £25 to
mydsommer next. Abowt two of the clok after none, before Jane my
wife in the strete, I gave him a saffron noble in ernest for a drink
peny. Mr. Hawkins, of London, at that instant cam to have bowght it.