July 13th, I gave to Robert 5_s._ upon his wagis this day. July
14th, I gave 4_s._ to Letise, part of her noble for her quarter
wagis, ending the 9th day of this month. July 18th, I bowght goodman
Welder his hovel, which is in the yard of the howse next me, which
I bowght of Mr. Mark Perpoint. I gave him a new angel and five new
shillings, and he is to have more 5_s._, that is 20_s._ in all; and
if I cannot compact to enter the howse, then hee is to tak his
hovel, and to restore it to me. July 21st, I give to Richard 5_s._
uppon his wagis this day. July 22nd, I payd Mr. Childe £7. 13_s._
4_d._ for all his wood, xx. lode and vj. July 24th, the offer for
the bargayn agayn of Mr. Perpoynt’s behalf: this is Mr. Stokden’s
doing. July 27th, remember that this Friday I payd Mr. Tomson £4 for
his master Mr. Herbert, which I borrowed 12th of December 1592: and
Mr. Herbert sent it agayn to my furder use by Mistres Lee. Aug. 7th,
Mystres Twyne and Mystres Banister cam to viset me. Mr. Bele and
Mrs. Bele, Mistres Plan, Mrs. Parpoint, &c. dyned with me. I gave
Robert Web 5_s._; he sent it to Mr. Homes. Aug. 9th, I dyned with
the Lord Keper at Kew. Aug. 17th, I and my wife and Katharin our
dowghter dyned with the Lord Keper at Kew. Aug. 28th, I was all day
with the Lord Keper. Mr. Web and the philosopher cam. Aug. 29th, Mr.
Web and the philosopher cam again. Aug. 30th, Mistres Redhed, mother
to Mr. John Ponsoys by her first husbond, Mr. Gubbens, bokebynder,
and his wife, and the same day Mr. Redhed himself, one of her
Majestie’s jentlemen hushers, cam to me. Sept. 11th, Jana, post
triduunam ægrotationem abortiebatur, mane hora decima. Sept. 13th,
the howse surrendered for me by Mr. Mark Perpoint, Mr. William
Walker of Wimbledon, Miles Holland, Mr. John Stockden, the thre
customarie tenants, with promys to bring in his wife at the next
court day to surrender. Sept. 18th, Elizabeth Kyrton had 2_s._ 6_d._