April 1st, Capitayn Hendor made acquayntance with me, and shewed
me a part of his pollicy against the Spanishe King his intended
mischief agaynst her Majestie and this realme. April 4th, John
Stokden cam to study with our children. Mr. Thomas Wye cam with a
token from Mistres Ashley. Remove to Mr. Harding and Mr. Abbot at
Oxford abowt my Arabik boke. April 5th, my right ey very sore and
bludshotten. April 7th, Mr. Nicols cam agayn out of Northampton. Mr.
Barret and Mistres Barret cam to visit me. May 3rd, betwene 6 and 7
after none the Quene sent for me to her in the privy garden at
Grenwich, when I delivered in writing the hevenly admonition, and
Her Majestie tok it thankfully. Onely the Lady Warwyk and Sir Robert
Cecill his Lady wer in the garden with Her Majestie. May 18th, Her
Majestie sent me agayn the copy of the letter of G. K. with thanks
by the Lady Warwick. May 21st, Sir John Wolley moved my sute to Her
Majesty. She graunted after a sort, but referred all to the Lord of
Canterbury. May 25th, Dr. Awbrey moved my sute to Her Majesty, and
answere as before. May 29th, with the Archbishop before the Quene
cam to her house. June 3rd, I, my wife, and seven children, before
the Quene at Thisellworth. My wife kissed her hand. I exhibited my
request for the Archbishop to com to my cottage. June 6th, supped
with the Lord Archbishop. Invited him to my cottage. June 11th,
given to Robert Webb at London seven shillings in the begynning of
this month. June 15th, £40 of Mr. Thomas Harward. I shuld have £60
more. A great fytt of the stone in my kydneys. June 20th, Mistres
Magdalen Perpoynt was sole examined of our Stuard at the Temple.