Oct. 9th, I dyned with Syr Walter Rawlegh at Durham Howse. Oct.
11th, to Edward 2_s._, part of wagis. Mr. Banks lent me uppon lone
tyll after Christmas £5. Mr. Emery sent me £3 by my servant Richard
Walkedine. Oct. 14th, to Anne 2_s._ part of wagis; to Elizabeth
Felde payd the rest of her yeres wagis, and moreover 2_s._ 6_d._
given for the overplus tyme. Oct. 19th, the old reckoning betwene me
and Edmond Hilton made clere. Of his eleven pownds demanded, I shewd
him of my old note that he had receyved £6. 15_s._, and after that
Sted his 25_s._, and Mr. Emery his £3 lent him; as I did shew him
Sted his letter, and Mr. Emery his letter of the last month. All
these sommes make just an eleven pownd. Payd to nurse Stubble,
in part of payment of her wagis, 5_s._ Oct. 20th, to Anne 12_d._
Richard rode toward Oxford for my Arabik boke. Oct. 25th, Sted was a
suter to me for help in law against his father. Nov. 8th, my goods
sent me by Peravall toward Manchester. Nov. 19th, my Arabik boke
restored by God’s favor. Nov. 21st, goodwife Lidgatt payd her rent
two quarters ending at the feast of the Annunciation of our Lady
next, 13_s._ 4_d._ Goodman Agar was by in my hall at Mortlak. Nov.
25th, the newes that Sir Edward Kelley was slayne. Nov. 26th, Mr.
Nicolas Bagwell of Manchester browght me a letter from my brother
Arnold. Lent to Mister Laurence Dutton twelve shillings. My wife and
children all by water toward Coventry. Dec. 10th, Mr. Lok his Arabik
bokes and letter to me by Mr. Berran his sonne. Dec. 23rd, I payd to
John Norton, stationer, ten pownds in hand, and was bownd in a
recognisance before Doctor Hone for the payment of the rest, £10
yerely, at Christmas and Midsommer £5, tyll £53 more 14_s._ 8_d._
were payd. Receyved £30 in part of payment of one hundred for my
howse at Manchester of Mr. Paget. Dec. 26th, nata filia Comitis
Derby mane circa quartam horam Londini.