June 26th, the Erle of Derby with the Lady Gerard, Sir .... Molyneux
and his Lady, dawghter to the Lady Gerard, Master Hawghton and
others, cam suddenly uppon [me] after three of the clok. I made them
a skoler’s collation, and it was taken in good part. I browght his
honor and the ladyes to Ardwyk Grene toward Lyme, at Mr. Legh his
howse, twelve myles of. June 29th, wyndy and rayny. July 5th, Mr.
Savill and Mr. Saxton cam. July 6th, I, Mr. Saxton and Arthur
Rouland, John and Richard, to Howgh Hall. July 9th, I sent Roger Kay
of Manchester with my letters into Wales. July 10th, Manchester town
described and measured by Mr. Christopher Saxton. Given to nurse
Stubley 10_s._, part of wagis. July 10th to 14th, occupyed with low
controversies, as with Holden of Salford and the tenants of Sir John
Byron of Faylsworth in the right of the colledge, sending to .....
to the cownty, and sending for Mr. Tyldesley or Chester for
cownsaylers. July 12th, given more to nurse, when her sonne John
Stubley went from me toward London to be reconcyled to his master.
I gave him 5_s._ The yong man, Leon the hatter, went with him. July
14th, Mr. Saxton rode away. The sessions day at Manchester. July
19th, Ales cam by Mrs. Beston’s help to my servyce. Thomas, my coke,
went from me. July 21st, Isabell Bardman from the chamber to the
kitchin. July 25th, thunder in the morning; rayne in the night. July
27th, the Erle of Darby went by London ward; dyned at Curtes’ howse.