April 10th, a supplication exhibited by the parishioners. April
11th, 12th, trubblesom days abowt Mr. Palmer the curate. April 15th,
I had my _Wierus de præstigiis Dæmonum_ from Mr. Hopwood, and lent
him _Flagellum Dæmonum_ and _Fustio Dæmonum_ in 8vo, for tyme till
Midsomer. April 21st, I sent Barthilmew Hikman 40_s._ I sent by
Bradshaw many letters to London. I sent by goodman Thurp of Salford
my great letter to the byshop of Lincolne, and one to Mr.
Shallcross. April 22nd, after none Sir Urien Legh knight, and his
brother, and Mr. Brown, and Mr. George Booth, sherif of Chesshire,
did viset me. Mr. Booth sayd that he wold yeld that to me that he
wold not yeld to the bisshop nor any other. Mr. Wortley of Wortley
cam allso the same day hora quarta a meridie. May 2nd, Mr. Hulme and
Mr. Williamson cam to me in the Lord Bishop of Lincoln’s case for
Hulme. May 4th, I, with Sir Robert Barber, curat, and Robert
Talsley, clerk of Manchester parish church, with diverse of the town
of divers ages, went in perambulation to the bownds of Manchester
parish: began at the Leeless Bench against Prestwich parish, and so
had a vew of the thre corne staks, and then down tyll Mr. Standysh
new enclosure on the Low, wher we stayed and vewed the stak yet
standing in the bank of the dich, being from the corne a eleven
measures of Mr. Standley’s stak then in his hand, and two fote more,
which still I did measure afterward, and it did conteyn in Kentish