July 1st, I sent Roger Kay to Vanydles for catall. July 4th,
the carriers to Wakefeld for the corn. July 5th, toward evening
lightning and little thunder. July 6th, thunder in the morning. July
7th, five horse lode of Dansk ry cam home. July 19th, the strang
pang of my back opening mane hora 6¼. In the church uppon Mr.
Palmer’s disorder against Mr. Lawrence. July 20th, the last of my
Dansk rye, in all 21 horse load. Aug. 6th, this night I had the
vision and shew of many bokes in my dreame, and among the rest was
one great volume thik in large quarto, new printed, on the first
page whereof as a title in great letters was printed “Notus in Judæa
Deus.” Many other bokes methowght I saw new printed, of very strange
arguments. I lent Mr. Edward Hopwood of Hopwood my _Malleus
Maleficarum_ to use tyll new yere’s tyde next, a short thik old boke
with two clasps, printed anno 1517. Aug. 19th, the Erle and Cowntess
of Derby cam to Alport lodg. Aug. 21st, the Erle and Cowntess of
Derby had a banket at my lodging at the colledge hora 4½. Aug. 27th,
John Addenstall from Mr. Emery. I wrote. Sept. 3rd, Mr. Werall of
Lobester within two miles of Donkaster cam to me to be acquaynted
with me. Sept. 9th, very wyndy at Sowth and rayny. Sept. 12th, hayle
this morning on Monday. Sept. 15th, lent by Mr. Werall 40_s._ John
Cholmley went with him to give him and other physik; and I answered
John Cholmeley the 40_s._ again. Sept 24th, Barthilmew cam. Sept.
25th, Mr. Olyver Carter his impudent and evident disolutenes in the
church. Sept. 26th, he repented and some pacification was made.