Oct. 12th, Rafe Holden preferred a bill against Richard Walkeson for
Brereriding’s chase entyring, which I and Antony Ryve ..... fals.
The bill was not fownd. Oct. 22nd, John Fletcher of Manchester went
with my letters to Vanylos this Sunday morning. Nov. 3rd, Mr. John
Cholmeley toward London by Market-Harborow. Nov. 7th, the fellows
and the receyver agreed not with me in accounts. Paulo post nonam
mane Arthur’s left eye hurt at playing at fence with rapier and
dagger of sticks, by a foyne of Edmond Arnold. Nov. 10th, Mr. Burch
his letter from Mathew Palmer. Nov. 14th, the fellows wold not
graunt me the £5. for my howse-rent, as the Archbishops had
graunted: and our foundation commaundeth an howse. Nov. 17th, I sent
Ed. Arnold to London on fote with my letters to D. Julio. Dec. 3rd,
to Richard Walkeden 10_s._ in part of wagis. To nurse 10_s._ Dec.
9th, I visited the grammar schole. Dec. 13th, I wrote by the carryer
Barret to D. Cæsar. Dec. 14th, Mr. George Broke, sonne to Mr.....
Broke of ...., cam to be acquaynted with me, whome I used most
frendely. Mr. Ratclif of Manchester cam with him, but Mr. Heton
allso cam on Tuesday after none when I had no leyser. Dec. 17, I
lent to Mr. Barlow for his sonne a Spanish grammer in 8vo. printed
at Lovayn in anno 1555 by Bartholomæus Gravay in Spanish, French,
and Latin. To R. Dickonson I payd £7. 2_s._ for the plate and a new
bell made till 1599, January 1st, £66.