July 3rd, the Commission set uppon in the Chapter Howse. July 7th,
this morning, as I lay in my bed, it cam into my fantasy to write a
boke, “De differentiis quibusdam corporum et spirituum.” July 8th,
I writ to the Lord Bishop of Chester by Mr. Withenstalls. July 10th,
Mr. Nicols and Barthilmew Hickman cam. July 14th, Francys Nicols and
Barthilmew Hikman went homeward. July 17th, I willed the fellows to
com to me by nine the next day. July 18th, it is to be noted of the
great pacifications unexpected of man which happened this Friday;
for in the forenone (betwene nine and ten) where the fellows were
greatly in doubt of my heavy displeasure, by reason of their
manifold misusing of themselves against me, I did with all lenity
interteyn them, and shewed the most part of the things that I had
browght to pass at London for the college good, and told Mr. Carter
(going away) that I must speak with him alone. Robert Leigh and
Charles Legh were by. Secondly, the great sute betwene Redishmer and
me was stayed and by Mr. Richard Holland his wisdom. Thirdly, the
organs uppon condition was admitted. And fourthly, Mr. Williamson’s
resignation granted for a preacher to be gotten from Cambridge. July
19th, I lent Randall Kemp my second part of Hollinshed’s Great
Chronicle for ij. or iij. wekes. To Newton he restored it. July
31st, we held our audit, I and the fellows for the two yeres last
past in my absence, Olyver Carter, Thomas Williamson, and Robert
Birch, Charles Legh the elder being receyver. I red and gave unto
Mistres Mary Nicolls her prayer.