18th. This morning the carpenter made an end of my door out of my
chamber upon the leads.

This morning we met at the office: I dined at my house in Seething Lane,
and after that, going about 4 oâ€™clock to Westminster, I met with Mr.
Carter and Mr. Cooke coming to see me in a coach, and so I returned
home. I did also meet with Mr. Pierce, the surgeon, with a porter with
him, with a barrel of Lemons, which my man Burr sends me from sea. I
took all these people home to my house and did give them some drink,
and after them comes Mr. Sheply, and after a little stay we all went by
water to Westminster as far as the New Exchange. Thence to my Lord
about business, and being in talk in comes one with half a buck from
Hinchinbroke, and it smelling a little strong my Lord did give it me
(though it was as good as any could be). I did carry it to my mother,
where I had not been a great while, and indeed had no great mind to go,
because my father did lay upon me continually to do him a kindness at
the Wardrobe, which I could not do because of my own business being so
fresh with my Lord. But my father was not at home, and so I did leave
the venison with her to dispose of as she pleased. After that home,
where W. Hewer now was, and did lie this night with us, the first night.
My mind very quiet, only a little trouble I have for the great debts
which I have still upon me to the Secretary, Mr. Kipps, and Mr. Spong
for my patent.