10th. In the morning I went to Mr. Swan, who took me to the Court of
Wards, where I saw the three Lords Commissioners sitting upon some cause
where Mr. Scobell was concerned, and my Lord Fountaine took him up
very roughly about some things that he said. After that we went to the
Exchequer, where the Barons were hearing of causes, and there I made
affidavit that Mr. Downing was gone into Holland by order of the Council
of State, and this affidavit I gave to Mr. Stevens our lawyer. Thence to
my office, where I got money of Mr. Hawly to pay the lawyer, and there
found Mr. Lenard, one of the Clerks of the Council, and took him to the
Swan and gave him his morning draft. Then home to dinner, and after that
to the Exchequer, where I heard all the afternoon a great many causes
before the Barons; in the end came ours, and Squib proved clearly by his
patent that the house and office did now belong to him. Our lawyer made
some kind of opposition, but to no purpose, and so the cause was found
against us, and the foreman of the jury brought in L10 damages, which
the whole Court cried shame of, and so he cried 12d. Thence I went home,
vexed about this business, and there I found Mr. Moore, and with him
went into London to Mr. Fage about the cancer in my mouth, which begins
to grow dangerous, who gave me something for it, and also told me what
Monk had done in the City, how he had pulled down the most part of the
gates and chains that they could break down, and that he was now gone
back to White Hall. The City look mighty blank, and cannot tell what
in the world to do; the Parliament having this day ordered that the
Common-council sit no more; but that new ones be chosen according to
what qualifications they shall give them. Thence I went and drank with
Mr. Moore at the Sugar Loaf by Temple Bar, where Swan and I were last
night, and so we parted. At home I found Mr. Hunt, who sat talking with
me awhile, and so to bed.