4th. To Whitehall to Sir G. Carteret’s chamber, where all the officers
met, and so we went up to the Duke of York, and he took us into his
closet, and we did open to him our project of stopping the growing
charge of the fleet by paying them in hand one moyety, and the other
four months hence. This he do like, and we returned by his order to Sir
G. Carteret’s chamber, and there we did draw up this design in order to
be presented to the Parliament. From thence I to my Lord’s, and dined
with him and told him what we had done to-day. Sir Tho. Crew dined with
my Lord to-day, and we were very merry with Mrs. Borfett, who dined
there still as she has always done lately. After dinner Sir Tho. and my
Lady to the Playhouse to see “The Silent Woman.” I home by water, and
with Mr. Hater in my chamber all alone he and I did put this morning’s
design into order, which being done I did carry it to Sir W. Batten,
where I found some gentlemen with him (Sir W. Pen among the rest pretty
merry with drink) playing at cards, and there I staid looking upon them
till one o’clock in the morning, and so Sir W. Pen and I went away,
and I to bed. This day the Parliament voted that the bodies of Oliver,
Ireton, Bradshaw, &c., should be taken up out of their graves in the
Abbey, and drawn to the gallows, and there hanged and buried under it:
which (methinks) do trouble me that a man of so great courage as he was,
should have that dishonour, though otherwise he might deserve it enough.