30th. All the morning getting instructions ready for the Squadron of
ships that are going to-day to the Streights, among others Captain
Teddiman, Curtis, and Captain Robert Blake to be commander of the whole
Squadron. After dinner to ninepins, W. Howe and I against Mr. Creed and
the Captain. We lost 5s. apiece to them. After that W. Howe, Mr. Sheply
and I got my Lord’s leave to go to see Captain Sparling. So we took boat
and first went on shore, it being very pleasant in the fields; but a
very pitiful town Deal is. We went to Fuller’s (the famous place for
ale), but they have none but what was in the vat. After that to Poole’s,
a tavern in the town, where we drank, and so to boat again, and went to
the Assistance, where we were treated very civilly by the Captain, and
he did give us such music upon the harp by a fellow that he keeps on
board that I never expect to hear the like again, yet he is a drunken
simple fellow to look on as any I ever saw. After that on board the
Nazeby, where we found my Lord at supper, so I sat down and very
pleasant my Lord was with Mr. Creed and Sheply, who he puzzled about
finding out the meaning of the three notes which my Lord had cut over
the chrystal of his watch. After supper some musique. Then Mr. Sheply,
W. Howe and I up to the Lieutenant’s cabin, where we drank, and I and W.
Howe were very merry, and among other frolics he pulls out the spigot of
the little vessel of ale that was there in the cabin and drew some into
his mounteere, and after he had drank, I endeavouring to dash it in his
face, he got my velvet studying cap and drew some into mine too, that
we made ourselves a great deal of mirth, but spoiled my clothes with the
ale that we dashed up and down. After that to bed very late with drink
enough in my head.