29th. This day or two my maid Jane--[Jane Wayneman.]--has been lame,
that we cannot tell what to do for want of her. Up and to White Hall,
where I got my warrant from the Duke to be Clerk of the Acts. Also I
got my Lord’s warrant from the Secretary for his honour of Earle of
Portsmouth, and Viscount Montagu of Hinchingbroke. So to my Lord, to
give him an account of what I had done. Then to Sir Geffery Palmer, to
give them to him to have bills drawn upon them, who told me that my Lord
must have some good Latinist to make the preamble to his Patent, which
must express his late service in the best terms that he can, and he told
me in what high flaunting terms Sir J. Greenville had caused his to
be done, which he do not like; but that Sir Richard Fanshawe had done
General Monk’s very well. Back to Westminster, and meeting Mr. Townsend
in the Palace, he and I and another or two went and dined at the Leg
there. Then to White Hall, where I was told by Mr. Hutchinson at the
Admiralty, that Mr. Barlow, my predecessor, Clerk of the Acts, is yet
alive, and coming up to town to look after his place, which made my
heart sad a little. At night told my Lord thereof, and he bade me get
possession of my Patent; and he would do all that could be done to keep
him out. This night my Lord and I looked over the list of the Captains,.
and marked some that my Lord had a mind to have put out. Home and to
bed. Our wench very lame, abed these two days.