August 1st. Up very early, and by water to Whitehall to my Lord’s, and
there up to my Lord’s lodging (Win. Howe being now ill of the gout at
Mr. Pierce’s), and there talked with him about the affairs of the Navy,
and how I was now to wait today at the Privy Seal. Commissioner Pett
went with me, whom I desired to make my excuse at the office for my
absence this day. Hence to the Privy Seal Office, where I got (by
Mr. Mathews’ means) possession of the books and table, but with some
expectation of Baron’s bringing of a warrant from the King to have this
month. Nothing done this morning, Baron having spoke to Mr. Woodson and
Groome (clerks to Mr. Trumbull of the Signet) to keep all work in their
hands till the afternoon, at which time he expected to have his warrant
from the King for this month.--[The clerks of the Privy Seal took the
duty of attendance for a month by turns.]--I took at noon Mr. Harper
to the Leg in King Street, and did give him his dinner, who did still
advise me much to act wholly myself at the Privy Seal, but I told him
that I could not, because I had other business to take up my time. In
the afternoon at, the office again, where we had many things to sign;
and I went to the Council Chamber, and there got my Lord to sign the
first bill, and the rest all myself; but received no money today. After
I had signed all, I went with Dick Scobell and Luellin to drink at a
bottle beer house in the Strand, and after staying there a while (had
sent W. Hewer home before), I took boat and homewards went, and in Fish
Street bought a Lobster, and as I had bought it I met with Winter and
Mr. Delabarr, and there with a piece of sturgeon of theirs we went to
the Sun Tavern in the street and ate them. Late home and to bed.