3d. To Westminster Hall, where I found that my Lord was last night voted
one of the Generals at Sea, and Monk the other. I met my Lord in the
Hall, who bid me come to him at noon. I met with Mr. Pierce the purser,
Lieut. Lambert, Mr. Creed, and Will. Howe, and went with them to the
Swan tavern. Up to my office, but did nothing. At noon home to dinner to
a sheep’s head. My brother Tom came and dined with me, and told me that
my mother was not very well, and that my Aunt Fenner was very ill too.
After dinner I to Warwick House, in Holborn, to my Lord, where he dined
with my Lord of Manchester, Sir Dudley North, my Lord Fiennes, and my
Lord Barkly. I staid in the great hall, talking with some gentlemen
there, till they all come out. Then I, by coach with my Lord, to Mr.
Crew’s, in our way talking of publick things, and how I should look
after getting of his Commissioner’s despatch. He told me he feared there
was new design hatching, as if Monk had a mind to get into the saddle.
Here I left him, and went by appointment to Hering, the merchant, but
missed of my money, at which I was much troubled, but could not help
myself. Returning, met Mr. Gifford, who took me and gave me half a pint
of wine, and told me, as I hear this day from many, that things are in a
very doubtful posture, some of the Parliament being willing to keep the
power in their hands. After I had left him, I met with Tom Harper,
who took me into a place in Drury Lane, where we drank a great deal
of strong water, more than ever I did in my life at onetime before. He
talked huge high that my Lord Protector would come in place again, which
indeed is much discoursed of again, though I do not see it possible.
Hence home and wrote to my father at Brampton by the post. So to bed.
This day I was told that my Lord General Fleetwood told my lord that he
feared the King of Sweden is dead of a fever at Gottenburg.