5th,(Lord’s day). In the morning before church time Mr. Hawly, who had
for this day or two looked something sadly, which methinks did speak
something in his breast concerning me, came to me telling me that he
was out L24 which he could not tell what was become of, and that he do
remember that he had such a sum in a bag the other day, and could not
tell what he did with it, at which I was very sorry but could not
help him. In the morning to Mr. Gunning, where a stranger, an old man,
preached a good honest sermon upon “What manner of love is this that
we should be called the sons of God.” After sermon I could not find my
wife, who promised to be at the gate against my coming out, and waited
there a great while; then went to my house and finding her gone I
returned and called at the Chequers, thinking to dine at the ordinary
with Mr. Chetwind and Mr. Thomas, but they not being there I went to my
father and found her there, and there I dined. To their church in the
afternoon, and in Mrs. Turner’s pew my wife took up a good black hood
and kept it. A stranger preached a poor sermon, and so read over the
whole book of the story of Tobit. After sermon home with Mrs. Turner,
staid with her a little while, then she went into the court to a
christening and we to my father’s, where I wrote some notes for my
brother John to give to the Mercers’ to-morrow, it being the day of
their apposition. After supper home, and before going to bed I staid
writing of this day its passages, while a drum came by, beating of a
strange manner of beat, now and then a single stroke, which my wife
and I wondered at, what the meaning of it should be. This afternoon
at church I saw Dick Cumberland newly come out of the country from his
living, but did not speak to him.