3d. With Sir W. Batten and Pen by water to White Hall, where a meeting
of the Dukes of York and Albemarle, my Lord Sandwich and all the
principal officers, about the Winter Guard, but we determined of
nothing. To my Lord’s, who sent a great iron chest to White Hall; and
I saw it carried, into the King’s closet, where I saw most incomparable
pictures. Among the rest a book open upon a desk, which I durst have
sworn was a reall book, and back again to my Lord, and dined all alone
with him, who do treat me with a great deal of respect; and after dinner
did discourse an hour with me, and advise about some way to get himself
some money to make up for all his great expenses, saying that he
believed that he might have any thing that he would ask of the King.
This day Mr. Sheply and all my Lord’s goods came from sea, some of them
laid of the Wardrobe and some brought to my Lord’s house. From thence
to our office, where we met and did business, and so home and spent the
evening looking upon the painters that are at work in my house. This day
I heard the Duke speak of a great design that he and my Lord of Pembroke
have, and a great many others, of sending a venture to some parts of
Africa to dig for gold ore there. They intend to admit as many as will
venture their money, and so make themselves a company. L250 is the
lowest share for every man. But I do not find that my Lord do much like
it. At night Dr. Fairbrother (for so he is lately made of the Civil Law)
brought home my wife by coach, it being rainy weather, she having been
abroad today to buy more furniture for her house.