3d. Late to bed. About three in the morning there was great knocking at
my cabin, which with much difficulty (so they say) waked me, and I
rose, but it was only for a packet, so went to my bed again, and in the
morning gave it my Lord. This morning Capt. Isham comes on board to see
my Lord and drunk his wine before he went into the Downs, there likewise
come many merchants to get convoy to the Baltique, which a course was
taken for. They dined with my Lord, and one of them by name Alderman
Wood talked much to my Lord of the hopes that we have now to be settled,
(under the King he meant); but my Lord took no notice of it. After
dinner which was late my Lord went on shore, and after him I and Capt.
Sparling went in his boat, but the water being almost at low water we
could not stay for fear of not getting into our boat again. So back
again. This day come the Lieutenant of the Swiftsure, who was sent by
my Lord to Hastings, one of the Cinque Ports, to have got Mr. Edward
Montagu to have been one of their burgesses, but could not, for they
were all promised before. After he had done his message, I took him and
Mr. Pierce, the surgeon (who this day came on board, and not before), to
my cabin, where we drank a bottle of wine. At night, busy a-writing, and
so to bed. My heart exceeding heavy for not hearing of my dear wife, and
indeed I do not remember that ever my heart was so apprehensive of her
absence as at this very time.