17th. This morning (as indeed all the mornings nowadays) much business
at my Lord’s. There came to my house before I went out Mr. Barlow, an
old consumptive man, and fair conditioned, with whom I did discourse a
great while, and after much talk I did grant him what he asked, viz.,
L50 per annum, if my salary be not increased, and (100 per annum, in
case it be to L350), at which he was very well pleased to be paid as I
received my money and not otherwise. Going to my Lord’s I found my Lord
had got a great cold and kept his bed, and so I brought him to my Lord’s
bedside, and he and I did agree together to this purpose what I should
allow him. That done and the day proving fair I went home and got all my
goods packed up and sent away, and my wife and I and Mrs. Hunt went by
coach, overtaking the carts a-drinking in the Strand. Being come to my
house and set in the goods, and at night sent my wife and Mrs. Hunt to
buy something for supper; they bought a Quarter of Lamb, and so we ate
it, but it was not half roasted. Will, Mr. Blackburne’s nephew, is so
obedient, that I am greatly glad of him. At night he and I and Mrs. Hunt
home by water to Westminster. I to my Lord, and after having done some
business with him in his chamber in the Nursery, which has been now
his chamber since he came from sea, I went on foot with a linkboy to my
home, where I found my wife in bed and Jane washing the house, and Will
the boy sleeping, and a great deal of sport I had before I could wake
him. I to bed the first night that I ever lay here with my wife.