26th. This day came Mr. Donne back from London, who brought letters with
him that signify the meeting of the Parliament yesterday. And in the
afternoon by other letters I hear, that about twelve of the Lords met
and had chosen my Lord of Manchester’ Speaker of the House of Lords (the
young Lords that never sat yet, do forbear to sit for the present); and
Sir Harbottle Grimstone, Speaker for the House of Commons. The House of
Lords sent to have a conference with the House of Commons, which, after
a little debate, was granted. Dr. Reynolds’ preached before the Commons
before they sat. My Lord told me how Sir H. Yelverton (formerly my
school-fellow) was chosen in the first place for Northamptonshire
and Mr. Crew in the second. And told me how he did believe that the
Cavaliers have now the upper hand clear of the Presbyterians. All the
afternoon I was writing of letters, among the rest one to W. Simons,
Peter Luellin and Tom Doling, which because it is somewhat merry I keep
a copy of. After that done Mr. Sheply, W. Howe and I down with J. Goods
into my Lord’s storeroom of wine and other drink, where it was very
pleasant to observe the massy timbers that the ship is made of. We in
the room were wholly under water and yet a deck below that. After that
to supper, where Tom Guy supped with us, and we had very good laughing,
and after that some musique, where Mr. Pickering beginning to play a
bass part upon the viall did it so like a fool that I was ashamed of
him. After that to bed.