2nd. Early to Mr. Moore, and with him to Sir Peter Ball, who proffers my
uncle Robert much civility in letting him continue in the grounds which
he had hired of Hetley who is now dead. Thence home, where all things in
a hurry for dinner, a strange cook being come in the room of Slater, who
could not come. There dined here my uncle Wight and my aunt, my father
and mother, and my brother Tom, Dr. Fairbrother and Mr. Mills, the
parson, and his wife, who is a neighbour’s daughter of my uncle
Robert’s, and knows my Aunt Wight and all her and my friends there; and
so we had excellent company to-day. After dinner I was sent for to Sir
G. Carteret’s, where he was, and I found the Comptroller, who are upon
writing a letter to the Commissioners of Parliament in some things a
rougher stile than our last, because they seem to speak high to us. So
the Comptroller and I thence to a tavern hard by, and there did agree
upon drawing up some letters to be sent to all the pursers and Clerks
of the Cheques to make up their accounts. Then home; where I found the
parson and his wife gone. And by and by the rest of the company, very
well pleased, and I too; it being the last dinner I intend to make a
great while, it having now cost me almost L15 in three dinners within
this fortnight. In the evening comes Sir W. Pen, pretty merry, to sit
with me and talk, which we did for an hour or two, and so good night,
and I to bed.