15th. Up by three o’clock this morning, and rode to Cambridge, and was
there by seven o’clock, where, after I was trimmed, I went to Christ
College, and found my brother John at eight o’clock in bed, which vexed
me. Then to King’s College chappell, where I found the scholars in their
surplices at the service with the organs, which is a strange sight to
what it used in my time to be here. Then with Dr. Fairbrother (whom I
met there) to the Rose tavern, and called for some wine, and there met
fortunately with Mr. Turner of our office, and sent for his wife, and
were very merry (they being come to settle their son here), and sent
also for Mr. Sanchy, of Magdalen, with whom and other gentlemen, friends
of his, we were very merry, and I treated them as well as I could, and
so at noon took horse again, having taken leave of my cozen Angier, and
rode to Impington, where I found my old uncle

     [Talbot Pepys, sixth son of John Pepys of Impington, was born 1583,
     and therefore at this time he was seventy-eight years of age.  He
     was educated at Trinity Hall, Cambridge, and called to the bar at
     the Middle Temple in 1605.  He was M.P. for Cambridge in 1625, and
     Recorder of Cambridge from 1624 to 1660, in which year he was
     succeeded by his son Roger.  He died of the plague, March, 1666,
     aged eighty-three.]

sitting all alone, like a man out of the world: he can hardly see; but
all things else he do pretty livelyly. Then with Dr. John Pepys and
him, I read over the will, and had their advice therein, who, as to the
sufficiency thereof confirmed me, and advised me as to the other parts
thereof. Having done there, I rode to Gravely with much ado to inquire
for a surrender of my uncle’s in some of the copyholders’ hands there,
but I can hear of none, which puts me into very great trouble of mind,
and so with a sad heart rode home to Brampton, but made myself as
cheerful as I could to my father, and so to bed.