3rd. To the Paynter’s and sat and had more of my picture done; but it do
not please me, for I fear it will not be like me. At noon from thence to
the Wardrobe, where dinner not being ready Mr. Moore and I to the Temple
about my little business at Mr. Turner’s, and so back again, and dinner
being half done I went in to my Lady, where my Lady Wright was at dinner
with her, and all our talk about the great happiness that my Lady Wright
says there is in being in the fashion and in variety of fashions,
in scorn of others that are not so, as citizens’ wives and country
gentlewomen, which though it did displease me enough, yet I said nothing
to it. Thence by water to the office through bridge, being carried by
him in oars that the other day rowed in a scull faster than my oars to
the Towre, and I did give him 6d. At the office all the afternoon, and
at night home to read in “Mare Clausum” till bedtime, and so to bed, but
had a very bad night by dreams of my wife’s riding with me and her horse
throwing her and breaking her leg, and then I dreamed that I.. [was]
in such pain that I waked with it, and had a great deal of pain there a
very great while till I fell asleep again, and such apprehension I had
of it that when I rose and trussed up myself thinking that it had been
no dream. Till in the daytime I found myself very well at ease, and
remembered that I did dream so, and that Mr. Creed was with me, and that
I did complain to him of it, and he said he had the same pain in his
left that I had in my right... which pleased me much to remember.