26th (Lord’s day). Lay long in bed. To church and heard a good sermon at
our own church, where I have not been a great many weeks. Dined with my
wife alone at home pleasing myself in that my house do begin to look as
if at last it would be in good order. This day the Parliament received
the communion of Dr. Gunning at St. Margaret’s, Westminster. In the
afternoon both the Sir Williams came to church, where we had a dull
stranger. After church home, and so to the Mitre, where I found Dr.
Burnett, the first time that ever I met him to drink with him, and my
uncle Wight and there we sat and drank a great deal, and so I to Sir W.
Batten’s, where I have on purpose made myself a great stranger, only
to get a high opinion a little more of myself in them. Here I heard how
Mrs. Browne, Sir W. Batten’s sister, is brought to bed, and I to be one
of the godfathers, which I could not nor did deny. Which, however, did
trouble me very much to be at charge to no purpose, so that I could not
sleep hardly all night, but in the morning I bethought myself, and I
think it is very well I should do it. Sir W. Batten told me how Mr. Prin
(among the two or three that did refuse to-day to receive the sacrament
upon their knees) was offered by a mistake the drink afterwards, which
he did receive, being denied the drink by Dr. Gunning, unless he would
take it on his knees; and after that by another the bread was brought
him, and he did take it sitting, which is thought very preposterous.
Home and to bed.