4th. The Comptroller came this morning to get me to go see a house or
two near our office, which he would take for himself or Mr. Turner, and
then he would have me have Mr. Turner’s lodgings and himself mine and
Mr. Davis’s. But the houses did not like us, and so that design at
present is stopped. Then he and I by water to the bridge, and then
walked over the Bank-side till we came to the Temple, and so I went over
and to my father’s, where I met with my cozen J. Holcroft, and took him
and my father and my brother Tom to the Bear tavern and gave them wine,
my cozen being to go into the country again to-morrow. From thence to my
Lord Crew’s to dinner with him, and had very good discourse about having
of young noblemen and gentlemen to think of going to sea, as being as
honourable service as the land war. And among other things he told us
how, in Queen Elizabeth’s time, one young nobleman would wait with
a trencher at the back of another till he came to age himself. And
witnessed in my young Lord of Kent, that then was, who waited upon my
Lord Bedford at table, when a letter came to my Lord Bedford that the
Earldom of Kent was fallen to his servant, the young Lord; and so he
rose from table, and made him sit down in his place, and took a lower
for himself, for so he was by place to sit. From thence to the Theatre
and saw “Harry the 4th,” a good play. That done I went over the water
and walked over the fields to Southwark, and so home and to my lute. At
night to bed.