24th. This morning my wife in bed tells me of our being robbed of our
silver tankard, which vexed me all day for the negligence of my people
to leave the door open. My wife and I by water to Whitehall, where I
left her to her business and I to my cozen Thomas Pepys, and discoursed
with him at large about our business of my uncleâ€™s will. He can give us
no light at all into his estate, but upon the whole tells me that he do
believe that he has left but little money, though something more than we
have found, which is about L500. Here came Sir G. Lane by chance, seeing
a bill upon the door to hire the house, with whom my coz and I walked
all up and down, and indeed it is a very pretty place, and he do intend
to leave the agreement for the House, which is L400 fine, and L46 rent a
year to me between them. Then to the Wardrobe, but come too late, and so
dined with the servants. And then to my Lady, who do shew my wife and me
the greatest favour in the world, in which I take great content. Home by
water and to the office all the afternoon, which is a great pleasure to
me again, to talk with persons of quality and to be in command, and I
give it out among them that the estate left me is L200 a year in land,
besides moneys, because I would put an esteem upon myself. At night home
and to bed after I had set down my journals ever since my going from
London this journey to this house. This afternoon I hear that my man
Will hath lost his clock with my tankard, at which I am very glad.