28th. At home all the morning; at noon Will brought me from Whitehall,
whither I had sent him, some letters from my Lord Sandwich, from
Tangier; where he continues still, and hath done some execution upon
the Turks, and retaken an Englishman from them, of one Mr. Parker’s,
a merchant in Marke-lane. In the afternoon Mr. Pett and I met at the
office; there being none more there than we two I saw there was not the
reverence due to us observed, and so I took occasion to break up and
took Mr. Gawdon along with me, and he and I (though it rained) were
resolved to go, he to my Lord Treasurer’s and I to the Chancellor’s with
a letter from my Lord to-day. So to a tavern at the end of Mark Lane,
and there we staid till with much ado we got a coach, and so to my Lord
Treasurer’s and lost our labours, then to the Chancellor’s, and there
met with Mr. Dugdale, and with him and one Mr. Simons, I think that
belongs to my Lord Hatton, and Mr. Kipps and others, to the Fountain
tavern, and there staid till twelve at night drinking and singing, Mr.
Simons and one Mr. Agar singing very well. Then Mr. Gawdon being almost
drunk had the wit to be gone, and so I took leave too, and it being a
fine moonshine night he and I footed it all the way home, but though
he was drunk he went such a pace as I did admire how he was able to go.
When I came home I found our new maid Sarah--[Sarah did not stay long
with Mrs. Pepys, who was continually falling out with her. She left to
enter Sir William Penn’s service.]--come, who is a tall and a very well
favoured wench, and one that I think will please us. So to bed.