9th. Waked in the morning about six o’clock, by people running up and
down in Mr. Davis’s house, talking that the Fanatiques were up in arms
in the City. And so I rose and went forth; where in the street I found
every body in arms at the doors. So I returned (though with no good
courage at all, but that I might not seem to be afeared), and got my
sword and pistol, which, however, I had no powder to charge; and went to
the door, where I found Sir R. Ford, and with him I walked up and down
as far as the Exchange, and there I left him. In our way, the streets
full of Train-band, and great stories, what mischief these rogues have
done; and I think near a dozen have been killed this morning on both
sides. Seeing the city in this condition, the shops shut, and all things
in trouble, I went home and sat, it being office day, till noon. So
home, and dined at home, my father with me, and after dinner he would
needs have me go to my uncle Wight’s (where I have been so long absent
that I am ashamed to go). I found him at home and his wife, and I can
see they have taken my absence ill, but all things are past and we good
friends, and here I sat with my aunt till it was late, my uncle going
forth about business. My aunt being very fearful to be alone. So home to
my lute till late, and then to bed, there being strict guards all night
in the City, though most of the enemies, they say, are killed or taken.
This morning my wife and Pall went forth early, and I staid within.