13th. In the morning we all went to church, and sat in the pew belonging
to us, where a cold sermon of a young man that never had preached
before. Here Commissioner came with his wife and daughters, the eldest
being his wife’s daughter is a very comely black woman.--[The old
expression for a brunette.]--So to the Globe to dinner, and then with
Commissioner Pett to his lodgings there (which he hath for the present
while he is building the King’s yacht, which will be a pretty thing, and
much beyond the Dutchman’s), and from thence with him and his wife and
daughter-in-law by coach to Greenwich Church, where a good sermon, a
fine church, and a great company of handsome women. After sermon to
Deptford again; where, at the Commissioner’s and the Globe, we staid
long. And so I to Mr. Davis’s to bed again. But no sooner in bed, but we
had an alarm, and so we rose: and the Comptroller comes into the Yard to
us; and seamen of all the ships present repair to us, and there we armed
with every one a handspike, with which they were as fierce as could be.
At last we hear that it was only five or six men that did ride through
the guard in the town, without stopping to the guard that was there;
and, some say, shot at them. But all being quiet there, we caused the
seamen to go on board again: And so we all to bed (after I had sat
awhile with Mr. Davis in his study, which is filled with good books and
some very good song books) I likewise to bed.