27th. To the Wardrobe, and from thence with my Lords Sandwich and
Hinchinbroke to the Lords’ House by boat at Westminster, and there I
left them. Then to the lobby, and after waiting for Sir G. Downing’s
coming out, to speak with him about the giving me up of my bond for my
honesty when I was his clerk, but to no purpose, I went to Clerke’s at
the Legg, and there I found both Mr. Pierces, Mr. Rolt, formerly too
great a man to meet upon such even terms, and there we dined very merry,
there coming to us Captain Ferrers, this being the first day of his
going abroad since his leap a week ago, which I was greatly glad to see.
By water to the office, and there sat late, Sir George Carteret coming
in, who among other things did inquire into the naming of the maisters
for this fleet, and was very angry that they were named as they are, and
above all to see the maister of the Adventure (for whom there is some
kind of difference between Sir W. Pen and me) turned out, who has been
in her list. The office done, I went with the Comptroller to the Coffee
house, and there we discoursed of this, and I seem to be fond of him,
and indeed I find I must carry fair with all as far as I see it safe,
but I have got of him leave to have a little room from his lodgings to
my house, of which I am very glad, besides I do open him a way to get
lodgings himself in the office, of which I should be very glad. Home and
to bed.