13th. To Whitehall by water from Towre-wharf, where we could not pass
the ordinary way, because they were mending of the great stone steps
against the Coronacion. With Sir W. Pen, then to my Lord’s, and thence
with Capt. Cuttance and Capt. Clark to drink our morning draught
together, and before we could get back again my Lord was gone out. So to
Whitehall again and, met with my Lord above with the Duke; and after a
little talk with him, I went to the Banquethouse, and there saw the King
heal, the first time that ever I saw him do it; which he did with great
gravity, and it seemed to me to be an ugly office and a simple one. That
done to my Lord’s and dined there, and so by water with parson Turner
towards London, and upon my telling of him of Mr. Moore to be a fit man
to do his business with Bishop Wren, about which he was going, he went
back out of my boat into another to Whitehall, and so I forwards home
and there by and by took coach with Sir W. Pen and Captain Terne and
went to the buriall of Captain Robert Blake, at Wapping, and there had
each of us a ring, but it being dirty, we would not go to church with
them, but with our coach we returned home, and there staid a little, and
then he and I alone to the Dolphin (Sir W. Batten being this day gone
with his wife to Walthamstow to keep Easter), and there had a supper by
ourselves, we both being very hungry, and staying there late drinking I
became very sleepy, and so we went home and I to bed.