20th. Will Stankes and I set out in the morning betimes for Gravely,
where to an ale-house and drank, and then, going towards the Court
House, met my uncle Thomas and his son Thomas, with Bradly, the rogue
that had betrayed us, and one Young, a cunning fellow, who guides them.
There passed no unkind words at all between us, but I seemed fair and
went to drink with them. I said little till by and by that we come to
the Court, which was a simple meeting of a company of country rogues,
with the Steward, and two Fellows of Jesus College, that are lords of
the town where the jury were sworn; and I producing no surrender, though
I told them I was sure there is and must be one somewhere, they found
my uncle Thomas heir at law, as he is, and so, though I did tell him and
his son that they would find themselves abused by these fellows, and did
advise them to forbear being admitted this Court (which they could have
done, but that these rogues did persuade them to do it now), my uncle
was admitted, and his son also, in reversion after his father, which he
did well in to secure his money. The father paid a year and a half for
his fine, and the son half a year, in all L48, besides about L3 fees; so
that I do believe the charges of his journeys, and what he gives those
two rogues, and other expenses herein, cannot be less than L70, which
will be a sad thing for them if a surrender be found. After all was
done, I openly wished them joy in it, and so rode to Offord with them
and there parted fairly without any words. I took occasion to bid them
money for their half acre of land, which I had a mind to do that in the
surrender I might secure Piggottâ€™s, which otherwise I should be forced
to lose. So with Stankes home and supped, and after telling my father
how things went, I went to bed with my mind in good temper, because I
see the matter and manner of the Court and the bottom of my business,
wherein I was before and should always have been ignorant.