10th (Lord’s day). At our own church in the morning, where Mr. Mills
preached. Thence alone to the Wardrobe to dinner with my Lady, where my
Lady continues upon yesterday’s discourse still for me to lay out money
upon my wife, which I think it is best for me to do for her honour and
my own. Last night died Archibald, my Lady’s butler and Mrs. Sarah’s
brother, of a dropsy, which I am troubled at. In the afternoon went and
sat with Mr. Turner in his pew at St. Gregory’s, where I hear our Queen
Katherine, the first time by name as such, publickly prayed for, and
heard Dr. Buck upon “Woe unto thee, Corazin,” &c., where he started
a difficulty, which he left to another time to answer, about why God
should give means of grace to those people which he knew would not
receive them, and deny to others which he himself confesses, if they had
had them, would have received them, and they would have been effectual
too. I would I could hear him explain this, when he do come to it.
Thence home to my wife, and took her to my Aunt Wight’s, and there sat a
while with her (my uncle being at Katharine hill), and so home, and I to
Sir W. Batten’s, where Captain Cock was, and we sent for two bottles
of Canary to the Rose, which did do me a great deal of hurt, and did
trouble me all night, and, indeed, came home so out of order that I was
loth to say prayers to-night as I am used ever to do on Sundays, which
my wife took notice of and people of the house, which I was sorry for.