3rd. To the Wardrobe, where discoursing with my Lord, he did instruct
me as to the business of the Wardrobe, in case, in his absence, Mr.
Townsend should die, and told me that he do intend to joyne me and Mr.
Moore with him as to the business, now he is going to sea, and spoke to
me many other things, as to one that he do put the greatest confidence
in, of which I am proud. Here I had a good occasion to tell him (what
I have had long in my mind) that, since it has pleased God to bless me
with something, I am desirous to lay out something for my father, and so
have pitched upon Mr. Youngâ€™s place in the Wardrobe, which I desired he
would give order in his absence, if the place should fall that I might
have the refusal. Which my Lord did freely promise me, at which I was
very glad, he saying that he would do that at the least. So I saw my
Lord into the barge going to Whitehall, and I and Mr. Creed home to my
house, whither my father and my cozen Scott came to dine with me, and so
we dined together very well, and before we had done in comes my father
Bowyer and my mother and four daughters, and a young gentleman and his
sister, their friends, and there staid all the afternoon, which cost me
great store of wine, and were very merry. By and by I am called to the
office, and there staid a little. So home again, and took Mr. Creed and
left them, and so he and I to the Towre, to speak for some ammunition
for ships for my Lord; and so he and I, with much pleasure, walked quite
round the Towre, which I never did before. So home, and after a walk
with my wife upon the leads, I and she went to bed. This morning I and
Dr. Peirce went over to the Beare at the Bridge foot, thinking to have
met my Lord Hinchinbroke and his brother setting forth for France; but
they being not come we went over to the Wardrobe, and there found that
my Lord Abbot Montagu being not at Paris, my Lord hath a mind to have
them stay a little longer before they go.