18th (Whitsunday). By water to White Hall, and thereto chappell in my
pew belonging to me as Clerk of the Privy Seal; and there I heard a most
excellent sermon of Dr. Hacket, Bishop of Lichfield and Coventry, upon
these words: “He that drinketh this water shall never thirst.” We had an
excellent anthem, sung by Captain Cooke and another, and brave musique.
And then the King came down and offered, and took the sacrament upon his
knees; a sight very well worth seeing. Hence with Sir G. Carteret to his
lodging to dinner with his Lady and one Mr. Brevin, a French Divine, we
were very merry, and good discourse, and I had much talk with my Lady.
After dinner, and so to chappell again; and there had another good
anthem of Captain Cooke’s. Thence to the Councell-chamber; where the
King and Councell sat till almost eleven o’clock at night, and I forced
to walk up and down the gallerys till that time of night. They were
reading all the bills over that are to pass to-morrow at the House,
before the King’s going out of town and proroguing the House. At last
the Councell risen, and Sir G. Carteret telling me what the Councell
hath ordered about the ships designed to carry horse from Ireland to
Portugall, which is now altered. I got a coach and so home, sending the
boat away without me. At home I found my wife discontented at my being
abroad, but I pleased her. She was in her new suit of black sarcenet and
yellow petticoat very pretty. So to bed.