23d. Up early, and about my works in my house, to see what is done and
design more. Then to my office, and by and by we sat till noon at the
office. After sitting, Mr. Coventry and I did walk together a great
while in the Garden, where he did tell me his mind about Sir G.
Carteret’s having so much the command of the money, which must be
removed. And indeed it is the bane of all our business. He observed
to me also how Sir W. Batten begins to struggle and to look after his
business, which he do indeed a little, but it will come to nothing. I
also put him upon getting an order from the Duke for our inquiries
into the Chest, which he will see done. So we parted, and Mr. Creed by
appointment being come, he and I went out together, and at an ordinary
in Lumbard Streete dined together, and so walked down to the Styllyard,
and so all along Thames-street, but could not get a boat: I offered
eight shillings for a boat to attend me this afternoon, and they would
not, it being the day of the Queen’s coming to town from Hampton Court.
So we fairly walked it to White Hall, and through my Lord’s lodgings we
got into White Hall garden, and so to the Bowling-green, and up to the
top of the new Banqueting House there, over the Thames, which was a
most pleasant place as any I could have got; and all the show consisted
chiefly in the number of boats and barges; and two pageants, one of a
King, and another of a Queen, with her Maydes of Honour sitting at her
feet very prettily; and they tell me the Queen is Sir. Richard Ford’s
daughter. Anon come the King and Queen in a barge under a canopy with