7th. Walked to Westminster; where I understand the news that Mr. Montagu
is this last night come to the King with news, that he left the Queen
and fleet in the Bay of Biscay, coming this wayward; and that he
believes she is now at the Isle of Scilly. So at noon to my Lord Crew’s
and there dined, and after dinner Sir Thos. Crew and I talked together,
and among other instances of the simple light discourse that sometimes
is in the Parliament House, he told me how in the late business of
Chymny money, when all occupiers were to pay, it was questioned whether
women were under that name to pay, and somebody rose and said that they
were not occupiers, but occupied. Thence to Paul’s Church Yard; where
seeing my Lady’s Sandwich and Carteret, and my wife (who this day made
a visit the first time to my Lady Carteret), come by coach, and going to
Hide Park, I was resolved to follow them; and so went to Mrs. Turner’s:
and thence found her out at the Theatre, where I saw the last act of
the “Knight of the Burning Pestle,” which pleased me not at all. And so
after the play done, she and The. Turner and Mrs. Lucin and I, in her
coach to the Park; and there found them out, and spoke to them; and
observed many fine ladies, and staid till all were gone almost. And so
to Mrs. Turner’s, and there supped, and so walked home, and by and by
comes my wife home, brought by my Lady Carteret to the gate, and so to
bed.