27th. Up and among my workmen, my work going on still very well. So to
my office all the morning, and dined again with Sir W. Batten, his Lady
being in the country. Among other stories, he told us of the Mayor of
Bristoll’s reading a pass with the bottom upwards; and a barber that
could not read, that flung a letter in the kennel when one came to
desire him to read the superscription, saying, “Do you think I stand
here to read letters?” Among my workmen again, pleasing myself all the
afternoon there, and so to the office doing business till past 9 at
night, and so home and to bed. This afternoon Mrs. Hunt came to see me,
and I did give her a Muske Millon. To-day my hogshead of sherry I have
sold to Sir W. Batten, and am glad of my money instead of wine. After I
had wrote this at my office (as I have of late altogether done since my
wife has been in the country) I went into my house, and Will having been
making up books at Deptford with other clerks all day, I did not think
he was come home, but was in fear for him, it being very late, what was
become of him. But when I came home I found him there at his ease in his
study, which vexed me cruelly, that he should no more mind me, but to
let me be all alone at the office waiting for him. Whereupon I struck
him, and did stay up till 12 o’clock at night chiding him for it, and
did in plain terms tell him that I would not be served so, and that I am
resolved to look out some boy that I may have the bringing up of after
my own mind, and which I do intend to do, for I do find that he has got
a taste of liberty since he came to me that he will not leave. Having
discharged my mind, I went to bed.