5th (Lord’s day). Left my wife in bed not well... and I to church, and
so home to dinner, and dined alone upon some marrow bones, and had a
fine piece of rost beef, but being alone I eat none. So after dinner
comes in my brother Tom, and he tells me how he hath seen the father and
mother of the girl which my cozen Joyces would have him to have for a
wife, and they are much for it, but we are in a great quandary what to
do therein, L200 being but a little money; and I hope, if he continues
as he begins, he may look out for one with more. To church, and before
sermon there was a long psalm, and half another sung out while the
Sexton gathered what the church would give him for this last year. I
gave him 3s., and have the last week given the Clerk 2s., which I set
down that I may know what to do the next year, if it please the Lord
that I live so long; but the jest was, the Clerk begins the 25th psalm,
which hath a proper tune to it, and then the 116th, which cannot be sung
with that tune, which seemed very ridiculous. After church to Sir W.
Batten’s, where on purpose I have not been this fortnight, and I am
resolved to keep myself more reserved to avoyd the contempt which
otherwise I must fall into, and so home and six and talked and supped
with my wife, and so up to prayers and to bed, having wrote a letter
this night to Sir J. Mennes in the Downs for his opinion in the business
of striking of flags.