3rd. After musique practice I went to the office, and there with the two
Sir Williams all the morning about business, and at noon I dined with
Sir W. Batten with many friends more, it being his wedding-day, and
among other froliques, it being their third year, they had three pyes,
whereof the middlemost was made of an ovall form, in an ovall hole
within the other two, which made much mirth, and was called the
middle piece; and above all the rest, we had great striving to steal a
spooneful out of it; and I remember Mrs. Mills, the minister’s wife, did
steal one for me and did give it me; and to end all, Mrs. Shippman did
fill the pye full of white wine, it holding at least a pint and a half,
and did drink it off for a health to Sir William and my Lady, it being
the greatest draft that ever I did see a woman drink in my life. Before
we had dined came Sir G. Carteret, and we went all three to the office
and did business there till night, and then to Sir W. Batten again,
and I went along with my lady and the rest of the gentlewomen to Major
Holmes’s, and there we had a fine supper, among others, excellent
lobsters, which I never eat at this time of the year before. The Major
bath good lodgings at the Trinity House. Here we staid, and at last
home, and, being in my chamber, we do hear great noise of mirth at Sir
William Batten’s, tearing the ribbands from my Lady and him.--[As if
they were a newly-married couple.]--So I to bed.