31st. This morning Mr. Coventry and all our company met at the office
about some business of the victualling, which being dispatched we
parted. I to my Lord Crew’s to dinner (in my way calling upon my brother
Tom, with whom I staid a good while and talked, and find him a man like
to do well, which contents me much), where used with much respect, and
talking with him about my Lord’s debts, and whether we should make use
of an offer of Sir G. Carteret’s to lend my Lady 4 or L500, he told me
by no means, we must not oblige my Lord to him, and by the by he made a
question whether it was not my Lord’s interest a little to appear to the
King in debt, and for people to clamor against him as well as others for
their money, that by that means the King and the world may see that he
do lay out for the King’s honour upon his own main stock, which many he
tells me do, that in fine if there be occasion he and I will be bound
for it. Thence to Sir Thomas Crew’s lodgings. He hath been ill, and
continues so, under fits of apoplexy. Among other things, he and I did
discourse much of Mr. Montagu’s base doings, and the dishonour that he
will do my Lord, as well as cheating him of 2 or L3,000, which is too
true. Thence to the play, where coming late, and meeting with Sir W.
Pen, who had got room for my wife and his daughter in the pit, he and I
into one of the boxes, and there we sat and heard “The Little Thiefe,”
 a pretty play and well done. Thence home, and walked in the garden with
them, and then to the house to supper and sat late talking, and so to
bed.