4th. To Westminster Hall, where it was full term. Here all the morning,
and at noon to my Lord Crew’s, where one Mr. Tempter (an ingenious man
and a person of honour he seems to be) dined; and, discoursing of
the nature of serpents, he told us some that in the waste places of
Lancashire do grow to a great bigness, and that do feed upon larks,
which they take thus: They observe when the lark is soared to the
highest, and do crawl till they come to be just underneath them; and
there they place themselves with their mouths uppermost, and there,
as is conceived, they do eject poyson up to the bird; for the bird do
suddenly come down again in its course of a circle, and falls directly
into the mouth of the serpent; which is very strange. He is a great
traveller; and, speaking of the tarantula, he says that all the harvest
long (about which times they are most busy) there are fidlers go up and
down the fields every where, in expectation of being hired by those that
are stung. Thence to the office, where late, and so to my chamber and
then to bed, my mind a little troubled how to put things in order to my
advantage in the office in readiness to the Duke’s orders lately sent to
us, and of which we are to treat at the office to-morrow morning. This
afternoon, going into the office, one met me and did serve a subpoena
upon me for one Field, whom we did commit to prison the other day for
some ill words he did give the office. The like he had for others, but
we shall scour him for it.