24th. To the Wardrobe, and there again spoke with my Lord, and saw W.
Howe, who is grown a very pretty and is a sober fellow. Thence abroad
with Mr. Creed, of whom I informed myself of all I had a mind to know.
Among other things, the great difficulty my Lord hath been in all this
summer for lack of good and full orders from the King; and I doubt our
Lords of the Councell do not mind things as the late powers did, but
their pleasures or profit more. That the Juego de Toros is a simple
sport, yet the greatest in Spain. That the Queen hath given no rewards
to any of the captains or officers, but only to my Lord Sandwich; and
that was a bag of gold, which was no honourable present, of about L1400
sterling. How recluse the Queen hath ever been, and all the voyage never
come upon the deck, nor put her head out of her cabin; but did love my
Lord’s musique, and would send for it down to the state-room, and she
sit in her cabin within hearing of it. That my Lord was forced to
have some clashing with the Council of Portugall about payment of the
portion, before he could get it; which was, besides Tangier and a free
trade in the Indys, two millions of crowns, half now, and the other half
in twelve months. But they have brought but little money; but the rest
in sugars and other commoditys, and bills of exchange. That the King of
Portugall is a very fool almost, and his mother do all, and he is a very
poor Prince. After a morning draft at the Star in Cheapside, I took him
to the Exchange, thence home, but my wife having dined, I took him to
Fish Street, and there we had a couple of lobsters, and dined upon them,
and much discourse. And so I to the office, and that being done, Sir W.
Pen and I to Deptford by water to Captain Rooth’s to see him, he being
very sick, and by land home, calling at Halfway house, where we eat and
drank. So home and to bed.