31st (Lord’s day). Waked early, but being in a strange house, did not
rise till 7 o’clock almost, and so rose and read over my oaths, and
whiled away an hour thinking upon businesses till Will came to get me
ready, and so got ready and to my office, and thence to church. After
sermon home and dined alone. News is brought me that Sir W. Pen is come.
But I would take no notice thereof till after dinner, and then sent him
word that I would wait on him, but he is gone to bed. So to my office,
and there made my monthly accounts, and find myself worth in money about
L686 19s. 2 1/2d., for which God be praised; and indeed greatly I hope
to thank Almighty God, who do most manifestly bless me in my endeavours
to do the duties of my office, I now saving money, and my expenses being
little. My wife is still in the country; my house all in dirt; but my
work in a good forwardness, and will be much to my mind at last. In the
afternoon to church, and there heard a simple sermon of a stranger upon
David’s words, “Blessed is the man that walketh not in the way of the
ungodly,” &c., and the best of his sermon was the degrees of walking,
standing, and sitting, showing how by steps and degrees sinners do grow
in wickedness. After sermon to my brother Tom’s, who I found has taken
physic to-day, and I talked with him about his country mistress, and
read Cook’s letter, wherein I am well satisfied, and will appear in
promoting it; so back and to Mr. Rawlinson’s, and there supped with him,
and in came my uncle Wight and my aunt. Our discourse of the discontents
that are abroad, among, and by reason of the Presbyters. Some were
clapped up to-day, and strict watch is kept in the City by the
train-bands, and letters of a plot are taken. God preserve us! for all
these things bode very ill. So home, and after going to welcome home Sir
W. Pen, who was unready, going to bed, I staid with him a little while,
and so to my lodging and to bed.