31st. Up early and among my workmen, I ordering my rooms above, which
will please me very well. So to my office, and there we sat all the
morning, where I begin more and more to grow considerable there. At
noon Mr. Coventry and I by his coach to the Exchange together; and in
Lumbard-street met Captain Browne of the Rosebush: at which he was cruel
angry: and did threaten to go to-day to the Duke at Hampton Court, and
get him turned out because he was not sailed. But at the Exchange we
resolved of eating a bit together, which we did at the Ship behind the
Exchange, and so took boat to Billingsgate, and went down on board
the Rosebush at Woolwich, and found all things out of order, but after
frightening the officers there, we left them to make more haste, and so
on shore to the yard, and did the same to the officers of the yard, that
the ship was not dispatched. Here we found Sir W. Batten going about his
survey, but so poorly and unlike a survey of the Navy, that I am ashamed
of it, and so is Mr. Coventry. We found fault with many things, and
among others the measure of some timber now serving in which Mr. Day the
assistant told us of, and so by water home again, all the way talking of
the office business and other very pleasant discourse, and much proud I
am of getting thus far into his books, which I think I am very much in.
So home late, and it being the last day of the month, I did make up my
accounts before I went to bed, and found myself worth about L650, for
which the Lord God be praised, and so to bed. I drank but two glasses of
wine this day, and yet it makes my head ake all night, and indisposed me
all the next day, of which I am glad. I am now in town only with my man
Will and Jane, and because my house is in building, I do lie at Sir W.
Penâ€™s house, he being gone to Ireland. My wife, her maid and boy gone
to Brampton. I am very well entered into the business and esteem of the
office, and do ply it close, and find benefit by it.