2nd. Up early, and got me ready in my riding clothes, and so to the
office, and there wrote letters to my father and wife against night, and
then to the business of my office, which being done, I took boat with
Will, and down to Greenwich, where Captain Cocke not being at home I
was vexed, and went to walk in the Park till he come thither to me: and
Will’s forgetting to bring my boots in the boat did also vex me, for I
was forced to send the boat back again for them. I to Captain Cocke’s
along with him to dinner, where I find his lady still pretty, but not so
good a humour as I thought she was. We had a plain, good dinner, and I
see they do live very frugally. I eat among other fruit much mulberrys,
a thing I have not eat of these many years, since I used to be at
Ashted, at my cozen Pepys’s. After dinner we to boat, and had a pleasant
passage down to Gravesend, but it was nine o’clock before we got
thither, so that we were in great doubt what to do, whether to stay
there or no; and the rather because I was afeard to ride, because of my
pain...; but at the Swan, finding Mr. Hemson and Lieutenant Carteret
of the Foresight come to meet me, I borrowed Mr. Hemson’s horse, and he
took another, and so we rode to Rochester in the dark, and there at the
Crown Mr. Gregory, Barrow, and others staid to meet me. So after a glass
of wine, we to our barge, that was ready for me, to the Hill-house,
where we soon went to bed, before we slept I telling upon discourse
Captain Cocke the manner of my being cut of the stone, which pleased him
much. So to sleep.