9th. Up early about my business to get me ready for my journey. But
first to the office; where we sat all the morning till noon, and then
broke up; and I bid them adieu for a week, having the Duke’s leave got
me by Mr. Coventry. To whom I did give thanks for my newes yesterday of
the Duke’s words to my Lord Sandwich concerning me, which he took well;
and do tell me so freely his love and value of me, that my mind is now
in as great a state of quiett as to my interest in the office, as I
could ever wish to be. I should this day have dined at Sir W. Pen’s at
a venison pasty with the rest of our fellows, but I could not get time,
but sent for a bit home, and so between one and two o’clock got on
horseback at our back gate, with my man Will with me, both well-mounted
on two grey horses. We rode and got to Ware before night; and so
resolved to ride on to Puckeridge, which we did, though the way was bad,
and the evening dark before we got thither, by help of company riding
before us; and among others, a gentleman that took up at the same inn,
the Falcon, with me, his name Mr. Brian, with whom I supped, and was
very good company, and a scholar. He tells me, that it is believed
the Queen is with child, for that the coaches are ordered to ride very
easily through the streets. After supper we paid the reckoning together,
and so he to his chamber and I to bed, very well, but my feet being much
cramped by my new hard boots that I bought the other day of Wotton were
in much pain. Will lay in another bed in the chamber with me.