21st. My wife and I by water to Westminster, and after she had seen her
father (of whom lately I have heard nothing at all what he does or her
mother), she comes to me to my Lord’s lodgings, where she and I staid
walking in White Hall garden. And in the Privy-garden saw the finest
smocks and linnen petticoats of my Lady Castlemaine’s, laced with rich
lace at the bottom, that ever I saw; and did me good to look upon them.
So to Wilkinson’s, she and I and Sarah to dinner, where I had a good
quarter of lamb and a salat. Here Sarah told me how the King dined at my
Lady Castlemaine’s, and supped, every day and night the last week;
and that the night that the bonfires were made for joy of the Queen’s
arrivall, the King was there; but there was no fire at her door, though
at all the rest of the doors almost in the street; which was much
observed: and that the King and she did send for a pair of scales and
weighed one another; and she, being with child, was said to be heaviest.
But she is now a most disconsolate creature, and comes not out of
doors, since the King’s going. But we went to the Theatre to “The French
Dancing Master,” and there with much pleasure gazed upon her (Lady
Castlemaine); but it troubles us to see her look dejectedly and slighted
by people already. The play pleased us very well; but Lacy’s part, the
Dancing Master, the best in the world. Thence to my brother Tom’s, in
expectation to have met my father to-night come out of the country, but
he is not yet come, but here we found my uncle Fenner and his old wife,
whom I had not seen since the wedding dinner, nor care to see her. They
being gone, my wife and I went and saw Mrs. Turner, whom we found not
well, and her two boys Charles and Will come out of the country, grown
very plain boys after three years being under their father’s care in
Yorkshire. Thence to Tom’s again, and there supped well, my she cozen
Scott being there and my father being not come, we walked home and to
bed.