18th. Up early; and after reading a little in Cicero, I made me ready
and to my office, where all the morning very busy. At noon Mr. Creed
came to me about business, and he and I walked as far as Lincoln’s Inn
Fields together. After a turn or two in the walks we parted, and I to my
Lord Crew’s and dined with him; where I hear the courage of Sir H. Vane
at his death is talked on every where as a miracle. Thence to Somerset
House to Sir J. Winter’s chamber by appointment, and met Mr. Pett, where
he and I read over his last contract with the King for the Forest of
Dean, whereof I took notes because of this new one that he is now in
making. That done he and I walked to Lilly’s, the painter’s, where
we saw among other rare things, the Duchess of York, her whole body,
sitting instate in a chair, in white sattin, and another of the King,
that is not finished; most rare things. I did give the fellow something
that showed them us, and promised to come some other time, and he would
show me Lady Castlemaine’s, which I could not then see, it being locked
up! Thence to Wright’s, the painter’s: but, Lord! the difference that is
between their two works. Thence to the Temple, and there spoke with my
cozen Roger, who gives me little hopes in the business between my Uncle
Tom and us. So Mr. Pett (who staid at his son’s chamber) and I by coach
to the old Exchange, and there parted, and I home and at the office till
night. My windows at my office are made clean to-day and a casement in
my closet. So home, and after some merry discourse in the kitchen with
my wife and maids as I now-a-days often do, I being well pleased with
both my maids, to bed.