22nd. About three o’clock this morning I waked with the noise of the
rayne, having never in my life heard a more violent shower; and then the
catt was lockt in the chamber, and kept a great mewing, and leapt upon
the bed, which made me I could not sleep a great while. Then to sleep,
and about five o’clock rose, and up to my office, and about 8 o’clock
went down to Deptford, and there with Mr. Davis did look over most of
his stores; by the same token in the great storehouse, while Captain
Badily was talking to us, one from a trap-door above let fall unawares
a coyle of cable, that it was 10,000 to one it had not broke Captain
Badily’s neck, it came so near him, but did him no hurt. I went on
with looking and informing myself of the stores with great delight, and
having done there, I took boat home again and dined, and after dinner
sent for some of my workmen and did scold at them so as I hope my work
will be hastened. Then by water to Westminster Hall, and there I hear
that old Mr. Hales did lately die suddenly in an hour’s time. Here I
met with Will Bowyer, and had a promise from him of a place to stand
to-morrow at his house to see the show. Thence to my Lord’s, and
thither sent for Mr. Creed, who came, and walked together talking about
business, and then to his lodgings at Clerke’s, the confectioner’s,
where he did give me a little banquet, and I had liked to have begged
a parrot for my wife, but he hath put me in a way to get a better from
Steventon; at Portsmouth. But I did get of him a draught of Tangier to
take a copy by, which pleases me very well. So home by water and to my
office, where late, and so home to bed.