5th. Up and with my painters painting my dining room all day long till
night, not stirring out at all. Only in the morning my Lady Batten did
send to speak with me, and told me very civilly that she did not desire,
nor hoped I did, that anything should pass between us but what was
civill, though there was not the neighbourliness between her and my wife
that was fit to be, and so complained of my maid’s mocking of her; when
she called “Nan” to her maid within her own house, my maid Jane in the
garden overheard her, and mocked her, and some other such like things
she told me, and of my wife’s speaking unhandsomely of her; to all which
I did give her a very respectfull answer, such as did please her, and am
sorry indeed that this should be, though I do not desire there should be
any acquaintance between my wife and her. But I promised to avoid such
words and passages for the future. So home, and by and by Sir W. Pen
did send for me to his bedside; and tell me how really Sir J. Minnes did
resolve to have one of my rooms, and that he was very angry and hot, and
said he would speak to the Duke. To which, knowing that all this was but
to scare me, and to get him to put off his resolution of making up the
entry, I did tell him plainly how I did not value his anger more, than
he did mine, and that I should be willing to do what the Duke commanded,
and I was sure to have justice of him, and that was all I did say to him
about it, though I was much vexed, and after a little stay went home;
and there telling my wife she did put me into heart, and resolve to
offer him to change lodgings, and believe that that will one way or
other bring us to some end in this dispute. At night I called up my
maids, and schooled Jane, who did answer me so humbly and drolly about
it, that though I seemed angry, I was much pleased with her and [my]
wife also. So at night to bed.