11th. Up by four o’clock, and hard at my multiplicacion-table, which I
am now almost master of, and so made me ready and to my office, where by
and by comes Mr. Pett, and then a messenger from Mr. Coventry, who stays
in his boat at the Tower for us. So we to him, and down to Deptford
first, and there viewed some deals lately served in at a low price,
which our officers, like knaves, would untruly value in their worth, but
we found them good. Then to Woolwich, and viewed well all the houses and
stores there, which lie in very great confusion for want of storehouses,
and then to Mr. Ackworth’s and Sheldon’s to view their books, which we
found not to answer the King’s service and security at all as to the
stores. Then to the Ropeyard, and there viewed the hemp, wherein we
found great corruption, and then saw a trial between Sir R. Ford’s yarn
and our own, and found great odds. So by water back again. About five in
the afternoon to Whitehall, and so to St. James’s; and at Mr. Coventry’s
chamber, which is very neat and fine, we had a pretty neat dinner, and
after dinner fell to discourse of business and regulation, and do think
of many things that will put matters into better order, and upon the
whole my heart rejoices to see Mr. Coventry so ingenious, and able, and
studious to do good, and with much frankness and respect to Mr. Pett and
myself particularly. About 9 o’clock we broke up after much discourse
and many things agreed on in order to our business of regulation, and so
by water (landing Mr. Pett at the Temple) I went home and to bed.