27th. Up betimes and among my workmen, and with great pleasure see the
posts in the entry taken down beyond expectation, so that now the boy’s
room being laid into the entry do make my coming in very handsome, which
was the only fault remaining almost in my house. We sat all the morning,
and in the afternoon I got many jobbs done to my mind, and my wife’s
chamber put into a good readiness against her coming, which she did at
night, for Will did, by my leave to go, meet her upon the road, and at
night did bring me word she was come to my brother’s, by my order. So I
made myself ready and put things at home in order, and so went thither
to her. Being come, I found her and her maid and dogg very well, and
herself grown a little fatter than she was. I was very well pleased to
see her, and after supper to bed, and had her company with great content
and much mutual love, only I do perceive that there has been falling out
between my mother and she, and a little between my father and she; but I
hope all is well again, and I perceive she likes Brampton House and seat
better than ever I did myself, and tells me how my Lord hath drawn a
plot of some alteracions to be made there, and hath brought it up, which
I saw and like well. I perceive my Lord and Lady have been very kind to
her, and Captn. Ferrers so kind that I perceive I have some jealousy of
him, but I know what is the Captain’s manner of carriage, and therefore
it is nothing to me. She tells me of a Court like to be in a little
time, which troubles me, for I would not willingly go out of town.