13th. Up by 4 o’clock in the morning, and read Cicero’s Second Oration
against Catiline, which pleased me exceedingly; and more I discern
therein than ever I thought was to be found in him; but I perceive it
was my ignorance, and that he is as good a writer as ever I read in my
life. By and by to Sir G. Carteret’s, to talk with him about yesterday’s
difference at the office; and offered my service to look into any old
books or papers that I have, that may make for him. He was well pleased
therewith, and did much inveigh against Mr. Coventry; telling me how he
had done him service in the Parliament, when Prin had drawn up things
against him for taking of money for places; that he did at his desire,
and upon his, letters, keep him off from doing it. And many other things
he told me, as how the King was beholden to him, and in what a miserable
condition his family would be, if he should die before he hath cleared
his accounts. Upon the whole, I do find that he do much esteem of me,
and is my friend, and I may make good use of him. Thence to several
places about business, among others to my brother’s, and there Tom
Beneere the barber trimmed me. Thence to my Lady’s, and there dined with
her, Mr. Laxton, Gibbons, and Goldgroove with us, and after dinner some
musique, and so home to my business, and in the evening my wife and I,
and Sarah and the boy, a most pleasant walk to Halfway house, and so
home and to bed.