23rd. At the office good part of the morning, and then about noon with
my wife on foot to the Wardrobe. My wife went up to the dining room to
my Lady Paulina, and I staid below talking with Mr. Moore in the parley,
reading of the King’s and Chancellor’s late speeches at the proroguing
of the Houses of Parliament. And while I was reading, news was brought
me that my Lord Sandwich is come and gone up to my Lady, which put me
into great suspense of joy, so I went up waiting my Lord’s coming out of
my Lady’s chamber, which by and by he did, and looks very well, and my
soul is glad to see him. He very merry, and hath left the King and Queen
at Portsmouth, and is come up to stay here till next Wednesday, and then
to meet the King and Queen at Hampton Court. So to dinner, Mr. Browne,
Clerk of the House of Lords, and his wife and brother there also; and my
Lord mighty merry; among other things, saying that the Queen is a very
agreeable lady, and paints still. After dinner I showed him my letter
from Teddiman about the news from Argier, which pleases him exceedingly;
and he writ one to the Duke of York about it, and sent it express. There
coming much company after dinner to my Lord, my wife and I slunk away to
the Opera, where we saw “Witt in a Constable,” the first time that it is
acted; but so silly a play I never saw I think in my life. After it was
done, my wife and I to the puppet play in Covent Garden, which I saw
the other day, and indeed it is very pleasant. Here among the fidlers I
first saw a dulcimere

     [The dulcimer (or psaltery) consisted of a flat box, acting as a
     resonating chamber, over which strings of wire were stretched: These
     were struck by little hammers.]

played on with sticks knocking of the strings, and is very pretty. So by
water home, and supped with Sir William Pen very merry, and so to bed.