8th. At the office all the morning doing business alone, and then to the
Wardrobe, where my Lady going out with the children to dinner I staid
not, but returned home, and was overtaken in St. Paul’s Churchyard by
Sir G. Carteret in his coach, and so he carried me to the Exchange,
where I staid awhile. He told me that the Queen and the fleet were in
Mount’s Bay on Monday last, and that the Queen endures her sickness
pretty well. He also told me how Sir John Lawson hath done some
execution upon the Turks in the Straight, of which I am glad, and told
the news the first on the Exchange, and was much followed by merchants
to tell it. So home and to dinner, and by and by to the office, and
after the rest gone (my Lady Albemarle being this day at dinner at Sir
W. Batten’s) Sir G. Carteret comes, and he and I walked in the garden,
and, among other discourse, tells me that it is Mr. Coventry that is to
come to us as a Commissioner of the Navy; at which he is much vexed, and
cries out upon Sir W. Pen, and threatens him highly. And looking upon
his lodgings, which are now enlarging, he in passion cried, “Guarda
mi spada; for, by God, I may chance to keep him in Ireland, when he is
there:” for Sir W. Pen is going thither with my Lord Lieutenant. But it
is my design to keep much in with Sir George; and I think I have
begun very well towards it. So to the office, and was there late doing
business, and so with my head full of business I to bed.