2nd. Up and to the office, where we sat till noon, and then to dinner,
and Mr. Moore came and dined with me, and after dinner to look over my
Brampton papers, which was a most necessary work, though it is not so
much to my content as I could wish. I fear that it must be as it can,
and not as I would. He being gone I to my workmen again, and at night by
coach towards Whitehall took up Mr. Moore and set him at my Lord’s,
and myself, hearing that there was a play at the Cockpit (and my Lord
Sandwich, who came to town last night, at it), I do go thither, and by
very great fortune did follow four or five gentlemen who were carried to
a little private door in a wall, and so crept through a narrow place and
come into one of the boxes next the King’s, but so as I could not see
the King or Queene, but many of the fine ladies, who yet are really not
so handsome generally as I used to take them to be, but that they are
finely dressed. Here we saw “The Cardinall,” a tragedy I had never seen
before, nor is there any great matter in it. The company that came in
with me into the box, were all Frenchmen that could speak no English,
but Lord! what sport they made to ask a pretty lady that they got among
them that understood both French and English to make her tell them what
the actors said. Thence to my Lord’s, and saw him, and staid with him
half an hour in his chamber talking about some of mine and his own
business, and so up to bed with Mr. Moore in the chamber over my Lord’s.