17th. To Westminster with Mr. Moore, and there, after several walks up
and down to hear news, I met with Lany, the Frenchman, who told me that
he had a letter from France last night, that tells him that my Lord
Hinchingbroke is dead,--[proved false]--and that he did die yesterday
was se’nnight, which do surprise me exceedingly (though we know that he
hath been sick these two months), so I hardly ever was in my life; but
being fearfull that my Lady should come to hear it too suddenly, he
and I went up to my Lord Crew’s, and there I dined with him, and after
dinner we told him, and the whole family is much disturbed by it: so we
consulted what to do to tell my Lady of it; and at last we thought of my
going first to Mr. George Montagu’s to hear whether he had any news of
it, which I did, and there found all his house in great heaviness for
the death of his son, Mr. George Montagu, who did go with our young
gentlemen into France, and that they hear nothing at all of our young
Lord; so believing that thence comes the mistake, I returned to my
Lord Crew (in my way in the Piazza seeing a house on fire, and all the
streets full of people to quench it), and told them of it, which they
are much glad of, and conclude, and so I hope, that my Lord is well; and
so I went to my Lady Sandwich, and told her all, and after much talk I
parted thence with my wife, who had been there all the day, and so home
to my musique, and then to bed.