25th. Up early, and among my workmen when they came, and set them
in good order at work on all hands, which, though it at first began
angrily, yet I pleased myself afterwards in seeing it put into a good
posture, and so I left them, and away by water to Woolwich (calling in
my way in Hamcreek, where I have never been before, and there found two
of the King’s ships lie there without any living creature aboard, which
troubled me, every thing being stole away that can be), where I staid
seeing a cable of 14 inches laid, in which there was good variety. Then
to Mr. Falconer’s, and there eat a bit of roast meat off of the spit,
and so away to the yard, and there among other things mustered the yard,
and did things that I perceive people do begin to value me, and that I
shall be able to be of command in all matters, which God be praised for.
Then to Mr. Pett’s, and there eat some fruit and drank, and so to boat
again, and to Deptford, calling there about the business of my house
only, and so home, where by appointment I found Mr. Coventry, Sir W.
Batten, and Mr. Waith met at Sir W. Batten’s, and thither I met, and so
agreed upon a way of answering my Lord Treasurer’s letter. Here I found
Mr. Coventry had got a letter from the Duke, sent us for looking into
the business of the Chest, of which I am glad. After we had done here I
went home, and up among my workmen, and found they had done a good day’s
work, and so to my office till late ordering of several businesses, and
so home and to bed, my mind, God be praised, full of business, but great
quiet.