11th. My brother Tom came to me, and he and I to Mr. Turner the
Draper’s, and paid L15 to him for cloth owing to him by my father for
his mourning for my uncle, and so to his house, and there invited all
the Honiwood’s to dinner on Monday next. So to the Exchange, and there
all the news is of the French and Dutch joyning against us; but I do
not think it yet true. So home to dinner, and in the afternoon to the
office, and so to Sir W. Batten’s, where in discourse I heard the custom
of the election of the Dukes of Genoa, who for two years are every day
attended in the greatest state; and four or five hundred men always
waiting upon him as a king; and when the two years are out, and another
is chose, a messenger is, sent to him, who stands at the bottom of the
stairs, and he at the top, and says, “Va. Illustrissima Serenita sta
finita, et puede andar en casa.”--“Your serenity is now ended; and
now you may be going home,” and so claps on his hat. And the old Duke
(having by custom sent his goods home before), walks away, it may be but
with one man at his heels; and the new one brought immediately in his
room, in the greatest state in the world. Another account was told us,
how in the Dukedom of Ragusa, in the Adriatique (a State that is little,
but more ancient, they say, than Venice, and is called the mother of
Venice, and the Turks lie round about it), that they change all the
officers of their guard, for fear of conspiracy, every twenty-four
hours, so that nobody knows who shall be captain of the guard to-night;
but two men come to a man, and lay hold of him as a prisoner, and carry
him to the place; and there he hath the keys of the garrison given him,
and he presently issues his orders for that night’s watch: and so always
from night to night. Sir Win. Rider told the first of his own knowledge;
and both he and Sir W. Batten confirm the last. Hence home and to read,
and so to bed, but very late again.