24th. Up betimes, and after taking leave of my brother, John, who went
from me to my father’s this day, I went forth by water to Sir Philip
Warwick’s, where I was with him a pretty while; and in discourse he
tells me, and made it; appear to me, that the King cannot be in debt to
the Navy at this time L5,000; and it is my opinion that Sir G. Carteret
do owe the King money, and yet the whole Navy debt paid. Thence I
parted, being doubtful of myself that I have not, spoke with the gravity
and weight that I ought to do in so great a business. But I rather hope
it is my doubtfulness of myself, and the haste which he was in, some
very great personages waiting for him without, while he was with me,
that made him willing to be gone. To the office by water, where we sat
doing little, now Mr. Coventry is not here, but only vex myself to see
what a sort of coxcombs we are when he is not here to undertake such
a business as we do. In the afternoon telling my wife that I go to
Deptford, I went, by water to Westminster Hall, and there finding Mrs.
Lane, took her over to Lambeth, where we were lately, and there, did
what I would with her, but only the main thing, which she; would not
consent to, for which God be praised..... But, trust in the Lord, I
shall never do so again while I live. After being tired with her company
I landed her at White; Hall, and so home and at my office writing
letters till 12 at night almost, and then home to supper and bed, and
there found my poor wife hard at work, which grieved my heart to see
that I should abuse so good a wretch, and that is just with God to make
her bad with me for my wrongin of her, but I do resolve never to do the
like again. So to bed.