21st (Lord’s day). Up betimes, and fell to reading my Latin grammar,
which I perceive I have great need of, having lately found it by my
calling Will to the reading of a chapter in Latin, and I am resolved
to go through it. After being trimmed, I by water to White Hall, and so
over the Park, it raining hard, to Mr. Coventry’s chamber, where I spent
two hours with him about business of the Navy, and how by his absence
things are like to go with us, and with good content from my being with
him he carried me by coach and set me down at Whitehall, and thence to
right home by water. He shewed me a list, which he hath prepared for the
Parliament’s view, if the business of his selling of offices should be
brought to further hearing, wherein he reckons up, as I remember, 236
offices of ships which have been disposed of without his taking one
farthing. This, of his own accord, he opened his cabinet on purpose to
shew me, meaning, I suppose, that I should discourse abroad of it, and
vindicate him therein, which I shall with all my power do. At home,
being wet, shifted my band and things, and then to dinner, and after
dinner went up and tried a little upon my tryangle, which I understand
fully, and with a little use I believe could bring myself to do
something. So to church, and slept all the sermon, the Scot, to whose
voice I am not to be reconciled, preaching. Thence with Sir J. Minnes
(who poor man had forgot that he carried me the other day to the
painter’s to see some pictures which he has since bought and are brought
home) to his Jodgings to see some base things he calls them of great
masters of painting. So I said nothing that he had shown me them
already, but commended them, and I think they are indeed good enough.
Thence to see Sir W. Pen, who continues ill of the gout still. Here we
staid a good while, and then I to my office, and read my vows seriously
and with content, and so home to supper, to prayers, and to bed.