31st. Up and to the office, where we sat all the morning, and among
other things Sir W. Warren came about some contract, and there did at
the open table, Sir W. Batten not being there; openly defy him, and
insisted how Sir W. Batten did endeavour to oppose him in everything
that he offered. Sir W. Pen took him up for it, like a counterfeit
rogue, though I know he was as much pleased to hear him talk so as any
man there. But upon his speaking no more was said but to the business.
At noon we broke up and I to the ‘Change awhile, and so home again to
dinner, my head aching mightily with being overcharged with business. We
had to dinner, my wife and I, a fine turkey and a mince pie, and dined
in state, poor wretch, she and I, and have thus kept our Christmas
together all alone almost, having not once been out, but to-morrow my
vowes are all out as to plays and wine, but I hope I shall not be long
before I come to new ones, so much good, and God’s blessing, I find to
have attended them. Thence to the office and did several businesses and
answered several people, but my head aching and it being my great night
of accounts, I went forth, took coach, and to my brother’s, but he was
not within, and so I back again and sat an hour or two at the Coffee
[house], hearing some simple discourse about Quakers being charmed by a
string about their wrists, and so home, and after a little while at
my office, I home and supped, and so had a good fire in my chamber
and there sat till 4 o’clock in the morning making up my accounts and
writing this last Journall of the year. And first I bless God I do,
after a large expense, even this month, by reason of Christmas, and some
payments to my father, and other things extraordinary, find that I
am worth in money, besides all my household stuff, or any thing of
Brampton, above L800, whereof in my Lord Sandwich’s hand, L700, and the
rest in my hand. So that there is not above L5 of all my estate in money
at this minute out of my hands and my Lord’s. For which the good God be
pleased to give me a thankful heart and a mind careful to preserve this
and increase it. I do live at my lodgings in the Navy Office, my family
being, besides my wife and I, Jane Gentleman, Besse, our excellent,
good-natured cookmayde, and Susan, a little girle, having neither man
nor boy, nor like to have again a good while, living now in most perfect
content and quiett, and very frugally also; my health pretty good,
but only that I have been much troubled with a costiveness which I am
labouring to get away, and have hopes of doing it. At the office I am
well, though envied to the devil by Sir William Batten, who hates me to
death, but cannot hurt me. The rest either love me, or at least do not
show otherwise, though I know Sir W. Pen to be a false knave touching
me, though he seems fair. My father and mother well in the country; and
at this time the young ladies of Hinchingbroke with them, their house
having the small-pox in it. The Queene after a long and sore sicknesse
is become well again; and the King minds his mistresse a little too
much, if it pleased God! but I hope all things will go well, and in the
Navy particularly, wherein I shall do my duty whatever comes of it. The
great talke is the designs of the King of France, whether against the
Pope or King of Spayne nobody knows; but a great and a most promising
Prince he is, and all the Princes of Europe have their eye upon him. My
wife’s brother come to great unhappiness by the ill-disposition, my wife
says, of his wife, and her poverty, which she now professes, after all
her husband’s pretence of a great fortune, but I see none of them, at
least they come not to trouble me. At present I am concerned for my
cozen Angier, of Cambridge, lately broke in his trade, and this day am
sending his son John, a very rogue, to sea. My brother Tom I know not
what to think of, for I cannot hear whether he minds his business or
not; and my brother John at Cambridge, with as little hopes of
doing good there, for when he was here he did give me great cause of
dissatisfaction with his manner of life. Pall with my father, and God
knows what she do there, or what will become of her, for I have not
anything yet to spare her, and she grows now old, and must be disposed
of one way or other. The Duchesse of York, at this time, sicke of the
meazles, but is growing well again. The Turke very far entered into
Germany, and all that part of the world at a losse what to expect from
his proceedings. Myself, blessed be God! in a good way, and design and
resolution of sticking to my business to get a little money with doing
the best service I can to the King also; which God continue! So ends the
old year.

     ETEXT EDITOR’S BOOKMARKS FOR PEPY’S DIARY 1963 COMPLETE:

     A woman sober, and no high-flyer, as he calls it
     Academy was dissolved by order of the Pope
     After oysters, at first course, a hash of rabbits, a lamb
     After some pleasant talk, my wife, Ashwell, and I to bed
     After awhile I caressed her and parted seeming friends
     Again that she spoke but somewhat of what she had in her heart
     And there, did what I would with her
     And so to sleep till the morning, but was bit cruelly
     And so to bed and there entertained her with great content
     And so to bed, my father lying with me in Ashwell’s bed
     Apprehend about one hundred Quakers
     At last we pretty good friends
     Before I sent my boy out with them, I beat him for a lie
     Being cleansed of lice this day by my wife
     Better we think than most other couples do
     Book itself, and both it and them not worth a turd
     But a woful rude rabble there was, and such noises
     Compliment from my aunt, which I take kindly as it is unusual
     Conceited, but that’s no matter to me
     Content as to be at our own home, after being abroad awhile
     Dare not oppose it alone for making an enemy and do no good
     Did so watch to see my wife put on drawers, which (she did)
     Did go to Shoe Lane to see a cocke-fighting at a new pit there
     Did find none of them within, which I was glad of
     Dined at home alone, a good calves head boiled and dumplings
     Dinner was great, and most neatly dressed
     Dog attending us, which made us all merry again
     Dr. Calamy is this day sent to Newgate for preaching
     Duodecimal arithmetique
     Eat a mouthful of pye at home to stay my stomach
     Employed by the fencers to play prizes at
     Enquiring into the selling of places do trouble a great many
     Every man looking after himself, and his owne lust and luxury
     Every small thing is enough now-a-days to bring a difference
     Excommunications, which they send upon the least occasions
     Expectation of profit will have its force
     Familiarity with her other servants is it that spoils them all
     Fear it may do him no good, but me hurt
     Fearful that I might not go far enough with my hat off
     Feverish, and hath sent for Mr. Pierce to let him blood
     Found guilty, and likely will be hanged (for stealing spoons)
     Found him a fool, as he ever was, or worse
     Galileo’s air thermometer, made before 1597
     Give her a Lobster and do so touse her and feel her all over
     God knows that I do not find honesty enough in my own mind
     Goes with his guards with him publiquely, and his trumpets
     Goes down the wind in honour as well as every thing else
     Great plot which was lately discovered in Ireland
     Had a good supper of an oxe’s cheek
     Half a pint of Rhenish wine at the Still-yard, mixed with beer
     Hanged with a silken halter
     He is too wise to be made a friend of
     He hoped he should live to see her “ugly and willing”
      He having made good promises, though I fear his performance
     His readiness to speak spoilt all
     How highly the Presbyters do talk in the coffeehouses still
     I calling her beggar, and she me pricklouse, which vexed me
     I and she never were so heartily angry in our lives as to-day
     I do not find other people so willing to do business as myself
     I slept most of the sermon
     I was very angry, and resolve to beat him to-morrow
     Ill humour to be so against that which all the world cries up
     In some churches there was hardly ten people in the whole church
     Insurrection of the Catholiques there
     It must be the old ones that must do any good
     Jealous, though God knows I have no great reason
     John has got a wife, and for that he intends to part with him
     Justice of proceeding not to condemn a man unheard
     Keep at interest, which is a good, quiett, and easy profit
     King was gone to play at Tennis
     Lady Castlemaine hath all the King’s Christmas presents
     Lay long in bed talking and pleasing myself with my wife
     Lay very long with my wife in bed talking with great pleasure
     Lay chiding, and then pleased with my wife in bed
     Liability of a husband to pay for goods supplied his wife
     Many thousands in a little time go out of England
     Matters in Ireland are full of discontent
     Money, which sweetens all things
     Most flat dead sermon, both for matter and manner of delivery
     Much discourse, but little to be learned
     My maid Susan ill, or would be thought so
     My wife has got too great head to be brought down soon
     My wife and her maid Ashwell had between them spilled the pot....
     No more matter being made of the death of one than another
     No sense nor grammar, yet in as good words that ever I saw
     Nor will yield that the Papists have any ground given them
     Nor would become obliged too much to any
     Nothing in the world done with true integrity
     Nothing of any truth and sincerity, but mere envy and design
     Nothing is to be got without offending God and the King
     Once a week or so I know a gentleman must go....
     Opening his mind to him as of one that may hereafter be his foe
     Out of an itch to look upon the sluts there
     Pain of the stone, and makes bloody water with great pain
     Parliament do agree to throw down Popery
     Pen was then turned Quaker
     Persuade me that she should prove with child since last night
     Plague is much in Amsterdam, and we in fears of it here
     Pride and debauchery of the present clergy
     Pride himself too much in it
     Quakers being charmed by a string about their wrists
     Rabbit not half roasted, which made me angry with my wife
     Railed bitterly ever and anon against John Calvin
     Reading my Latin grammar, which I perceive I have great need
     Reckon nothing money but when it is in the bank
     Resolve to live well and die a beggar
     Sad for want of my wife, whom I love with all my heart
     Saw his people go up and down louseing themselves
     Scholler, that would needs put in his discourse (every occasion)
     Scholler, but, it may be, thinks himself to be too much so
     See how time and example may alter a man
     See whether my wife did wear drawers to-day as she used to do
     Sent me last night, as a bribe, a barrel of sturgeon
     Servant of the King’s pleasures too, as well as business
     She was so ill as to be shaved and pidgeons put to her feet
     She is conceited that she do well already
     She used the word devil, which vexed me
     She begins not at all to take pleasure in me or study to please
     So home, and mighty friends with my wife again
     So much is it against my nature to owe anything to any body
     So home to supper and bed with my father
     So home, and after supper did wash my feet, and so to bed
     So neat and kind one to another
     Softly up to see whether any of the beds were out of order or no
     Sorry for doing it now, because of obliging me to do the like
     Sporting in my fancy with the Queen
     Statute against selling of offices
     Talk very highly of liberty of conscience
     Taught my wife some part of subtraction
     That I might say I saw no money in the paper
     That he is not able to live almost with her
     The plague is got to Amsterdam, brought by a ship from Argier
     The goldsmith, he being one of the jury to-morrow
     The house was full of citizens, and so the less pleasant
     Thence by coach, with a mad coachman, that drove like mad
     There is no passing but by coach in the streets, and hardly that
     There is no man almost in the City cares a turd for him
     Therefore ought not to expect more justice from her
     These young Lords are not fit to do any service abroad
     They were so false spelt that I was ashamed of them
     They say now a common mistress to the King
     Things being dear and little attendance to be had we went away
     Though it be but little, yet I do get ground every month
     Through the Fleete Ally to see a couple of pretty [strumpets]
     To bed with discontent she yielded to me and began to be fond
     Towzing her and doing what I would, but the last thing of all
     Upon a small temptation I could be false to her
     Vexed at my wife’s neglect in leaving of her scarf
     Waked this morning between four and five by my blackbird
     We having no luck in maids now-a-days
     Who is over head and eares in getting her house up
     Whose voice I am not to be reconciled
     Wife and the dancing-master alone above, not dancing but talking
     Wine, new and old, with labells pasted upon each bottle
     With much ado in an hour getting a coach home
     Would not make my coming troublesome to any
     Yet it was her fault not to see that I did take them