15th. Lay pretty long in bed, being a little troubled with some pain got
by wind and cold, and so up with good peace of mind, hoping that my wife
will mind her house and servants, and so to the office, and being too
soon to sit walked to my viail, which is well nigh done, and I believe
I may have it home to my mind next week. So back to my office, and there
we sat all the morning, I till 2 o’clock before I could go to dinner
again. After dinner walked forth to my instrument maker, and there had
my rule he made me lay now so perfected, that I think in all points I
have never need or desire a better, or think that any man yet had one
so good in all the several points of it for my use. So by water down to
Deptford, taking into my boat with me Mr. Palmer, one whom I knew and
his wife when I was first married, being an acquaintance of my wife’s
and her friends lodging at Charing Cross during our differences. He
joyed me in my condition, and himself it seems is forced to follow the
law in a common ordinary way, but seems to do well, and is a sober man,
enough by his discourse. He landed with me at Deptford, where he saw by
the officers’ respect to me a piece of my command, and took notice of
it, though God knows I hope I shall not be elated with that, but rather
desire to be known for serving the King well, and doing my duty. He gone
I walked up and down the yard a while discoursing with the officers, and
so by water home meditating on my new Rule with great pleasure. So to my
office, and there by candle light doing business, and so home to supper
and to bed.