4th. Up and to my office, shewing myself to Sir W. Batten, and Sir J.
Minnes, and no great matter made of my periwigg, as I was afeard there
would be. Among other things there came to me Shales of Portsmouth, by
my order, and I began to discourse with him about the arrears of stores
belonging to the Victualling Office there, and by his discourse I am in
some hopes that if I can get a grant from the King of such a part of all
I discover I may chance to find a way to get something by the by, which
do greatly please me the very thoughts of. Home to dinner, and very
pleasant with my wife, who is this day also herself making of marmalett
of quince, which she now do very well herself. I left her at it and by
coach I to the New Exchange and several places to buy and bring home
things, among others a case I bought of the trunk maker’s for my
periwigg, and so home and to my office late, and among other things
wrote a letter to Will’s uncle to hasten his removal from me, and so
home to supper and to bed. This morning Captain Cocke did give me a good
account of the Guinny trade. The Queene is in a great way to recovery.
This noon came John Angier to me in a pickle, I was sad to see him,
desiring my good word for him to go a trooper to Tangier, but I
did schoole him and sent him away with good advice, but no present
encouragement. Presently after I had a letter from his poor father
at Cambridge, who is broke, it seems, and desires me to get him a
protection, or a place of employment; but, poor man, I doubt I can helpe
him, but will endeavour it.