2nd. Up early and by water with Commissioner Pett to Deptford, and there
took the Jemmy yacht (that the King and the Lords virtuosos built the
other day) down to Woolwich, where we discoursed of several matters both
there and at the Ropeyard, and so to the yacht again, and went down four
or five miles with extraordinary pleasure, it being a fine day, and a
brave gale of wind, and had some oysters brought us aboard newly taken,
which were excellent, and ate with great pleasure. There also coming
into the river two Dutchmen, we sent a couple of men on board and bought
three Hollands cheeses, cost 4d. a piece, excellent cheeses, whereof I
had two and Commissioner Pett one. So back again to Woolwich, and going
aboard the Hulke to see the manner of the iron bridles, which we are
making of for to save cordage to put to the chain, I did fall from the
shipside into the ship (Kent), and had like to have broke my left hand,
but I only sprained some of my fingers, which, when I came ashore I sent
to Mrs. Ackworth for some balsam, and put to my hand, and was pretty
well within a little while after. We dined at the White Hart with
several officers with us, and after dinner went and saw the Royal James
brought down to the stern of the Docke (the main business we came for),
and then to the Ropeyard, and saw a trial between Riga hemp and a sort
of Indian grass, which is pretty strong, but no comparison between it
and the other for strength, and it is doubtful whether it will take
tarre or no. So to the yacht again, and carried us almost to London, so
by our oars home to the office, and thence Mr. Pett and I to Mr. Grantâ€™s
coffee-house, whither he and Sir J. Cutler came to us and had much
discourse, mixed discourse, and so broke up, and so home where I found
my poor wife all alone at work, and the house foul, it being washing
day, which troubled me, because that tomorrow I must be forced to have
friends at dinner. So to my office, and then home to supper and to bed.