4th (Lord’s day). Up and to church, where a lazy sermon, and so home
to dinner to a good piece of powdered beef, but a little too salt. At
dinner my wife did propound my having of my sister Pall at my house
again to be her woman, since one we must have, hoping that in that
quality possibly she may prove better than she did before, which I take
very well of her, and will consider of it, it being a very great trouble
to me that I should have a sister of so ill a nature, that I must be
forced to spend money upon a stranger when it might better be upon her,
if she were good for anything. After dinner I and she walked, though it
was dirty, to White Hall (in the way calling at the Wardrobe to see how
Mr. Moore do, who is pretty well, but not cured yet), being much afeard
of being seen by anybody, and was, I think, of Mr. Coventry, which so
troubled me that I made her go before, and I ever after loitered behind.
She to Mr. Hunt’s, and I to White Hall Chappell, and then up to walk up
and down the house, which now I am well known there, I shall forbear
to do, because I would not be thought a lazy body by Mr. Coventry and
others by being seen, as I have lately been, to walk up and down doing
nothing. So to Mr. Hunt’s, and there was most prettily and kindly
entertained by him and her, who are two as good people as I hardly know
any, and so neat and kind one to another. Here we staid late, and so to
my Lord’s to bed.