24th. Up betimes; and though it was a most foggy morning, and cold, yet
with a gally down to Eriffe, several times being at a loss whither we
went. There I mustered two ships of the King’s, lent by him to the Guiny
Company, which are manned better than ours at far less wages. Thence on
board two of the King’s, one of them the “Leopard,” Captain Beech, who
I find an able and serious man. He received me civilly, and his wife was
there, a very well bred and knowing woman, born at Antwerp, but speaks
as good English as myself, and an ingenious woman. Here was also Sir
G. Carteret’s son, who I find a pretty, but very talking man, but good
humour. Thence back again, entertaining myself upon my sliding rule with
great content, and called at Woolwich, where Mr. Chr. Pett having an
opportunity of being alone did tell me his mind about several things he
thought I was offended with him in, and told me of my kindness to his
assistant. I did give him such an answer as I thought was fit and left
him well satisfied, he offering to do me all the service, either by
draughts or modells that I should desire. Thence straight home, being
very cold, but yet well, I thank God, and at home found my wife making
mince pies, and by and by comes in Captain Ferrers to see us, and, among
other talke, tells us of the goodness of the new play of “Henry VIII.,”
 which makes me think [it] long till my time is out; but I hope before I
go I shall set myself such a stint as I may not forget myself as I have
hitherto done till I was forced for these months last past wholly to
forbid myself the seeing of one. He gone I to my office and there late
writing and reading, and so home to bed.