8th. Lay long in bed, and then up and to the office, where we sat all
the morning, and among other things my Lord Barkely called in question
his clerk Mr. Davy for something which Sir W. Batten and I did tell him
yesterday, but I endeavoured to make the least of it, and so all was
put up. At noon to the ‘Change, and among other businesses did discourse
with Captain Taylor, and I think I shall safely get L20 by his ship’s
freight at present, besides what it may be I may get hereafter. So home
to dinner, and thence by coach to White Hall, where a great while walked
with my Lord Tiviott, whom I find a most carefull, thoughtfull, and
cunning man, as I also ever took him to be. He is this day bringing in
an account where he makes the King debtor to him L10,000 already on the
garrison of Tangier account; but yet demands not ready money to pay
it, but offers such ways of paying it out of the sale of old decayed
provisions as will enrich him finely. Anon came my Lord Sandwich, and
then we fell to our business at the Committee about my Lord Tiviott’s
accounts, wherein I took occasion to speak now and then, so as my Lord
Sandwich did well seem to like of it, and after we were up did bid me
good night in a tone that, methinks, he is not so displeased with me as
I did doubt he is; however, I will take a course to know whether he be
or no. The Committee done, I took coach and home to my office, and there
late, and so to supper at home, and to bed, being doubtful of my pain
through the very cold weather which we have, but I will take all the
care I can to prevent it.