28th. Up, though with pain in my head, stomach, and ear, and that deaf
so as in my way by coach to White Hall with Sir J. Minnes I called at
Mr. Holliard’s, who did give me some pills, and tells me I shall have my
hearing again and be well. So to White Hall, where Sir J. Minnes and I
did spend an hour in the Gallery, looking upon the pictures, in which he
hath some judgment. And by and by the Commissioners for Tangier met: and
there my Lord Teviott, together with Captain Cuttance, Captain Evans,
and Jonas Moore, sent to that purpose, did bring us a brave draught of
the Mole to be built there; and report that it is likely to be the most
considerable place the King of England hath in the world; and so I am
apt to think it will. After discourse of this, and of supplying the
garrison with some more horse, we rose; and Sir J. Minnes and I home
again, finding the street about our house full, Sir R. Ford beginning
his shrievalty to-day and, what with his and our houses being new
painted, the street begins to look a great deal better than it did, and
more gracefull. Home and eat one bit of meat, and then by water with him
and Sir W. Batten to a sale of old provisions at Deptford, which we did
at Captain Boddily’s house, to the value of L600 or L700, but I am not
satisfied with the method used in this thing. Then home again by water,
and after a little at my office, and visit Sir W. Pen, who is not very
well again, with his late pain, home to supper, being hungry, and my
ear and cold not so bad I think as it was. So to bed, taking one of my
pills. Newes that the King comes to town for certain on Thursday next
from his progresse.