17th. Up, and my father being gone to bed ill last night and continuing
so this morning, I was forced to come to a new consideration, whether
it was fit for to let my uncle and his son go to Wisbeach about my uncle
Day’s estate alone or no, and concluded it unfit; and so resolved to go
with them myself, leaving my wife there, I begun a journey with them,
and with much ado, through the fens, along dikes, where sometimes we
were ready to have our horses sink to the belly, we got by night, with
great deal of stir and hard riding, to Parson’s Drove, a heathen place,
where I found my uncle and aunt Perkins, and their daughters, poor
wretches! in a sad, poor thatched cottage, like a poor barn, or stable,
peeling of hemp, in which I did give myself good content to see their
manner of preparing of hemp; and in a poor condition of habitt took them
to our miserable inn, and there, after long stay, and hearing of Frank,
their son, the miller, play, upon his treble, as he calls it, with which
he earns part of his living, and singing of a country bawdy song, we
sat down to supper; the whole crew, and Frank’s wife and child, a sad
company, of which I was ashamed, supped with us. And after supper I,
talking with my aunt about her report concerning my uncle Day’s will and
surrender, I found her in such different reports from what she writes
and says to the people, and short of what I expected, that I fear little
will be done of good in it. By and by newes is brought to us that one of
our horses is stole out of the stable, which proves my uncle’s, at which
I am inwardly glad--I mean, that it was not mine; and at this we were
at a great loss; and they doubting a person that lay at next door, a
Londoner, some lawyer’s clerk, we caused him to be secured in his bed,
and other care to be taken to seize the horse; and so about twelve at
night or more, to bed in a sad, cold, nasty chamber, only the mayde was
indifferent handsome, and so I had a kiss or two of her, and I to bed,
and a little after I was asleep they waked me to tell me that the horse
was found, which was good newes, and so to sleep till the morning, but
was bit cruelly, and nobody else of our company, which I wonder at, by
the gnatts.