25th (Lady-day). Up betimes and to my office, where all the morning, at
noon dined and to the Exchange, and thence to the Sun Tavern, to my
Lord Rutherford, and dined with him, and some others, his officers, and
Scotch gentlemen, of fine discourse and education. My Lord used me with
great respect, and discoursed upon his business as with one that he did
esteem of, and indeed I do believe that this garrison is likely to come
to something under him. By and by he went away, forgetting to take leave
of me, my back being turned, looking upon the aviary, which is there
very pretty, and the birds begin to sing well this spring. Thence home
and to my office till night, reading over and consulting upon the book
and Ruler that I bought this morning of Browne concerning the lyne of
numbers, in which I find much pleasure. This evening came Captain Grove
about hiring ships for Tangier. I did hint to him my desire that I could
make some lawfull profit thereof, which he promises that he will tell
me of all that he gets and that I shall have a share, which I did not
demand, but did silently consent to it, and money I perceive something
will be got thereby. At night Mr. Bland came and sat with me at my
office till late, and so I home and to bed. This day being washing day
and my maid Susan ill, or would be thought so, put my house so out of
order that we had no pleasure almost in anything, my wife being troubled
thereat for want of a good cook-maid, and moreover I cannot have my
dinner as I ought in memory of my being cut for the stone, but I must
have it a day or two hence.