14th. Up betimes to my office, where busy till 8 o’clock that Sir W.
Batten, Sir J. Minnes, Sir W. Pen and I down by barge to Woolwich, to
see “The Royal James” launched, where she has been under repair a great
while. We staid in the yard till almost noon, and then to Mr. Falconer’s
to a dinner of fish of our own sending, and when it was just ready to
come upon the table, word is brought that the King and Duke are come,
so they all went away to shew themselves, while I staid and had a little
dish or two by myself, resolving to go home, and by the time I had dined
they came again, having gone to little purpose, the King, I believe,
taking little notice of them. So they to dinner, and I staid a little
with them, and so good bye. I walked to Greenwich, studying the slide
rule for measuring of timber, which is very fine. Thence to Deptford by
water, and walked through the yard, and so walked to Redriffe, and so
home pretty weary, to my office, where anon they all came home, the ship
well launched, and so sat at the office till 9 at night, and I longer
doing business at my office, and so home to supper, my father being
come, and to bed. Sir G. Carteret tells me to-night that he perceives
the Parliament is likely to make a great bustle before they will give
the King any money; will call all things into question; and, above
all, the expences of the Navy; and do enquire into the King’s expences
everywhere, and into the truth of the report of people being forced to
sell their bills at 15 per cent. loss in the Navy; and, lastly, that
they are in a very angry pettish mood at present, and not likely to be
better.