18th. Up, and got our people together as soon as we could; and after
eating a dish of cold cream, which was my supper last night too, we took
leave of our beggarly company, though they seem good people, too; and
over most sad Fenns, all the way observing the sad life which the people
of the place which if they be born there, they do call the Breedlings’
of the place, do live, sometimes rowing from one spot to another, and
then wadeing, to Wisbeach, a pretty town, and a fine church and library,
where sundry very old abbey manuscripts; and a fine house, built on the
church ground by Secretary Thurlow, and a fine gallery built for him in
the church, but now all in the Bishop of Ely’s hands. After visiting
the church, &c., we went out of the towne, by the help of a stranger, to
find out one Blinkhorne, a miller, of whom we might inquire something of
old Day’s disposal of his estate, and in whose hands it now is; and
by great chance we met him, and brought him to our inn to dinner; and
instead of being informed in his estate by this fellow, we find that he
is the next heir to the estate, which was matter, of great sport to my
cozen Thomas and me, to see such a fellow prevent us in our hopes, he
being Day’s brother’s, daughter’s son, whereas we are but his sister’s
sons and grandsons; so that, after all, we were fain to propose our
matter to him, and to get him to give us leave to look after the
business, and so he to have one-third part, and we two to have the other
two-third parts, of what should be recovered of the estate, which he
consented to; and after some discourse and paying the reckoning, we
mounted again, and rode, being very merry at our defeat, to Chatteris,
my uncle very weary, and after supper, and my telling of three stories,
to their good liking, of spirits, we all three in a chamber went to bed.