17th. Up, and after doing some business at my office, Creed came to me,
and I took him to my viall maker’s, and there I heard the famous Mr.
Stefkins play admirably well, and yet I found it as it is always, I over
expected. I took him to the tavern and found him a temperate sober man,
at least he seems so to me. I commit the direction of my viall to him.
Thence to the Change, and so home, Creed and I to dinner, and after
dinner Sir W. Warren came to me, and he and I in my closet about his
last night’s contract, and from thence to discourse of measuring of
timber, wherein I made him see that I could understand the matter well,
and did both learn of and teach him something. Creed being gone through
my staying talking to him so long, I went alone by water down to
Redriffe, and so to sit and talk with Sir W. Pen, where I did speak very
plainly concerning my thoughts of Sir G. Carteret and Sir J. Minnes. So
as it may cost me some trouble if he should tell them again, but he said
as much or more to me concerning them both, which I may remember if ever
it should come forth, and nothing but what is true and my real opinion
of them, that they neither do understand to this day Creed’s accounts,
nor do deserve to be employed in their places without better care, but
that the King had better give them greater salaries to stand still and
do nothing. Thence coming home I was saluted by Bagwell and his wife
(the woman I have a kindness for), and they would have me into their
little house, which I was willing enough to, and did salute his wife.
They had got wine for me, and I perceive live prettily, and I believe
the woman a virtuous modest woman. Her husband walked through to
Redriffe with me, telling me things that I asked of in the yard, and so
by water home, it being likely to rain again to-night, which God forbid.
To supper and to bed.