19th. Up pretty betimes, and after eating something, we set out and I
(being willing thereto) went by a mistake with them to St. Ives, and
there, it being known that it was their nearer way to London, I took
leave of them there, they going straight to London and I to Brampton,
where I find my father ill in bed still, and Madam Norbery (whom and her
fair daughter and sister I was ashamed to kiss, but did, my lip being
sore with riding in the wind and bit with the gnatts), lately come to
town, come to see my father and mother, and they after a little stay
being gone, I told my father my success. And after dinner my wife and
I took horse, and rode with marvellous, and the first and only hour of,
pleasure, that ever I had in this estate since I had to do with it, to
Brampton woods; and through the wood rode, and gathered nuts in my way,
and then at Graffam to an old woman’s house to drink, where my wife used
to go; and being in all circumstances highly pleased, and in my wife’s
riding and good company at this time, I rode, and she showed me the
river behind my father’s house, which is very pleasant, and so saw her
home, and I straight to Huntingdon, and there met Mr. Shepley and to the
Crown (having sent home my horse by Stankes), and there a barber came
and trimmed me, and thence walked to Hinchingbroke, where my Lord and
ladies all are just alighted. And so I in among them, and my Lord glad
to see me, and the whole company. Here I staid and supped with them,
and after a good stay talking, but yet observing my Lord not to be so
mightily ingulphed in his pleasure in the country as I expected and
hoped, I took leave of them, and after a walk in the courtyard in the
dark with Mr. Howe, who tells me that my Lord do not enjoy himself and
please himself as he used to do, but will hasten up to London, and that
he is resolved to go to Chelsey again, which we are heartily grieved for
and studious how to prevent if it be possible, I took horse, there being
one appointed for me, and a groom to attend me, and so home, where my
wife: staid up and sister for me, and so to bed, troubled for what I
hear of my Lord.