7th (Lord’s day). Whit Sunday. Lay long talking with my wife, sometimes
angry and ended pleased and hope to bring our matters to a better
posture in a little time, which God send. So up and to church, where Mr.
Mills preached, but, I know not how, I slept most of the sermon. Thence
home, and dined with my wife and Ashwell and after dinner discoursed
very pleasantly, and so I to church again in the afternoon, and, the
Scot preaching, again slept all the afternoon, and so home, and by and
by to Sir W. Batten’s, to talk about business, where my Lady Batten
inveighed mightily against the German Princess, and I as high in the
defence of her wit and spirit, and glad that she is cleared at the
sessions. Thence to Sir W. Pen, who I found ill again of the gout, he
tells me that now Mr. Castle and Mrs. Martha Batten do own themselves to
be married, and have been this fortnight. Much good may it do him, for I
do not envy him his wife. So home, and there my wife and I had an angry
word or two upon discourse of our boy, compared with Sir W. Pen’s boy
that he has now, whom I say is much prettier than ours and she the
contrary. It troubles me to see that every small thing is enough
now-a-days to bring a difference between us. So to my office and there
did a little business, and then home to supper and to bed. Mrs. Turner,
who is often at Court, do tell me to-day that for certain the Queen hath
much changed her humour, and is become very pleasant and sociable as
any; and they say is with child, or believed to be so.