2nd (Lord’s day). Up and after the barber had done he and I walked to
the Docke, and so on board the Mathias, where Commissioner Pett and he
and I and a good many of the officers and others of the yard did hear an
excellent sermon of Mr. Hudson’s upon “All is yours and you are God’s,”
 a most ready, learned, and good sermon, such as I have not heard a good
while, nor ever thought he could have preached. We took him with us to
the Hill-house, and there we dined, and an officer or two with us. So
after dinner the company withdrew, and we three to private discourse
and laid the matters of the yard home again to the Commissioner, and
discoursed largely of several matters. Then to the parish church, and
there heard a poor sermon with a great deal of false Greek in it, upon
these words, “Ye are my friends, if ye do these things which I command
you.” Thence to the Docke and by water to view St. Mary Creeke, but
do not find it so proper for a wet docks as we would have it, it being
uneven ground and hard in the bottom and no, great depth of water in
many places. Returned and walked from the Docke home, Mr. Coventry and I
very much troubled to see how backward Commissioner Pett is to tell any
of the faults of the officers, and to see nothing in better condition
here for his being here than they are in other yards where there is
none. After some discourse to bed. But I sat up an hour after Mr.
Coventry was gone to read my vows, it raining a wonderful hard showre
about 11 at night for an hour together. So to bed.