24th. Up very early, and my joyners came to work. I to Mr. Moore; from
him came back home again, and drew up an account to my Lord, and that
being done met him at my Lord Sandwich’s, where I was a good while alone
with my Lord; and I perceive he confides in me and loves me as he uses
to do, and tells me his condition, which is now very well all I fear
is that he will not live within compass, for I am told this morning of
strange dotages of his upon the slut at Chelsea, even in the presence
of his daughter, my Lady Jem, and Mrs. Ferrets, who took notice of it.
There come to him this morning his prints of the river Tagus and the
City of Lisbon, which he measured with his own hand, and printed by
command of the King. My Lord pleases himself with it, but methinks it
ought to have been better done than by jobing. Besides I put him upon
having some took off upon white sattin, which he ordered presently. I
offered my Lord my accounts, and did give him up his old bond for L500
and took a new one of him for L700, which I am by lending him more money
to make up: and I am glad of it. My Lord would have had me dine with
him, but I had a mind to go home to my workmen, and so took a kind good
bye of him, and so with Creed to St. James’s, and, missing Mr. Coventry,
walked to the New Exchange, and there drank some whey, and so I by water
home, and found my closett at my office made very clean and neat to my
mind mightily, and home to dinner, and then to my office to brush my
books, and put them and my papers in order again, and all the afternoon
till late at night doing business there, and so home to supper, and then
to work in my chamber, making matters of this day’s accounts clear in my
books, they being a little extraordinary, and so being very late I put
myself to bed, the rest being long ago gone.