3d. Up and he home, and I with Sir J. Minnes and Sir W. Batten by coach
to Westminster, to St. James’s, thinking to meet Sir G. Carteret, and
to attend the Duke, but he not coming we broke up, and so to Westminster
Hall, and there meeting with Mr. Moore he tells me great news that my
Lady Castlemaine is fallen from Court, and this morning retired. He
gives me no account of the reason of it, but that it is so: for which
I am sorry: and yet if the King do it to leave off not only her but all
other mistresses, I should be heartily glad of it, that he may fall to
look after business. I hear my Lord Digby is condemned at Court for his
speech, and that my Lord Chancellor grows great again. Thence with Mr.
Creed, whom I called at his chamber, over the water to Lambeth; but
could not, it being morning, get to see the Archbishop’s hearse: so he
and I walked over the fields to Southwark, and there parted, and I spent
half an hour in Mary Overy’s Church, where are fine monuments of great
antiquity, I believe, and has been a fine church. Thence to the Change,
and meeting Sir J. Minnes there, he and I walked to look upon Backwell’s
design of making another alley from his shop through over against the
Exchange door, which will be very noble and quite put down the other
two.

So home to dinner and then to the office, and entered in my manuscript
book the Victualler’s contract, and then over the water and walked to
see Sir W. Pen, and sat with him a while, and so home late, and to my
viall. So up comes Creed again to me and stays all night, to-morrow
morning being a hearing before the Duke. So to bed full of discourse of
his business.