6th. Up betimes, and about eight o’clock by coach with four horses, with
Sir J. Minnes and Sir W. Batten, to Woolwich, a pleasant day. There at
the yard we consulted and ordered several matters, and thence to the
rope yard and did the like, and so into Mr. Falconer’s, where we had
some fish, which we brought with us, dressed; and there dined with us
his new wife, which had been his mayde, but seems to be a genteel woman,
well enough bred and discreet. Thence after dinner back to Deptford,
where we did as before, and so home, good discourse in our way, Sir J.
Minnes being good company, though a simple man enough as to the business
of his office, but we did discourse at large again about Sir W. Pen’s
patent to be his assistant, and I perceive he is resolved never to let
it pass. To my office, and thence to Sir W. Batten’s, where Major Holmes
was lately come from the Streights, but do tell me strange stories of
the faults of Cooper his master, put in by me, which I do not believe,
but am sorry to hear and must take some course to have him removed,
though I believe that the Captain is proud, and the fellow is not supple
enough to him. So to my office again to set down my Journall, and so
home and to bed. This evening my boy Waynman’s brother was with me, and
I did tell him again that I must part with the boy, for I will not keep
him. He desires my keeping him a little longer till he can provide for
him, which I am willing for a while to do. This day it seems the House
of Commons have been very high against the Papists, being incensed by
the stir which they make for their having an Indulgence; which, without
doubt, is a great folly in them to be so hot upon at this time, when
they see how averse already the House have showed themselves from it.
This evening Mr. Povy was with me at my office, and tells me that my
Lord Sandwich is this day so ill that he is much afeard of him, which
puts me to great pain, not more for my own sake than for his poor
family’s.