21st. Up very betimes by break of day, and got my wife up, whom the
thought of this day’s long journey do discourage; and after eating
something, and changing of a piece of gold to pay the reckoning, we
mounted, and through Baldwicke, where a fayre is kept to-day, and a
great one for cheese and other such commodities, and so to Hatfield, it
being most curious weather from the time we set out to our getting home,
and here we dined, and my wife being very weary, and believing that it
would be hard to get her home to-night, and a great charge to keep her
longer abroad, I took the opportunity of an empty coach that was to go
to London, and left her to come in it to London, for half-a-crown, and
so I and the boy home as fast as we could drive, and it was even night
before we got home. So that I account it very good fortune that we took
this course, being myself very weary, much more would my wife have been.
At home found all very well and my house in good order. To see Sir W.
Pen, who is pretty well, and Sir J. Minnes, who is a little lame on one
foot, and the rest gone to Chatham, viz.: Sir G. Carteret and Sir W.
Batten, who has in my absence inveighed against my contract the other
day for Warren’s masts, in which he is a knave, and I shall find matter
of tryumph, but it vexes me a little. So home, and by and by comes my
wife by coach well home, and having got a good fowl ready for supper
against her coming, we eat heartily, and so with great content and ease
to our own bed, there nothing appearing so to our content as to be at
our own home, after being abroad awhile.