18th (Lord’s day). Up, and troubled at a distaste my wife took at a
small thing that Jane did, and to see that she should be so vexed that I
took part with Jane, wherein I had reason; but by and by well again, and
so my wife in her best gown and new poynt that I bought her the other
day, to church with me, where she has not been these many weeks, and
her mayde Jane with her. I was troubled to see Pembleton there, but I
thought it prudence to take notice myself first of it and show my wife
him, and so by little and little considering that it mattered not much
his being there I grew less concerned and so mattered it not much, and
the less when, anon, my wife showed me his wife, a pretty little woman,
and well dressed, with a good jewel at her breast. The parson, Mr.
Mills, I perceive, did not know whether to pray for the Queen or no,
and so said nothing about her; which makes me fear she is dead. But
enquiring of Sir J. Minnes, he told me that he heard she was better last
night. So home to dinner, and Tom came and dined with me, and so, anon,
to church again, and there a simple coxcomb preached worse than the
Scot, and no Pembleton nor his wife there, which pleased me not a
little, and then home and spent most of the evening at Sir W. Pen’s in
complaisance, seeing him though he deserves no respect from me. This
evening came my uncle Wight to speak with me about my uncle Thomas’s
business, and Mr. Moore came, 4 or 5 days out of the country and not
come to see me before, though I desired by two or three messengers that
he would come to me as soon as he came to town. Which do trouble me to
think he should so soon forget my kindness to him, which I am afraid he
do. After walking a good while in the garden with these, I went up again
to Sir W. Pen, and took my wife home, and after supper to prayers, and
read very seriously my vowes, which I am fearful of forgetting by my
late great expenses, but I hope in God I do not, and so to bed.