5th. Up betimes and to my viall awhile, and so to the office, and there
sat, and busy all the morning. So at noon to the Exchange, and so
home to dinner, where I met Creed, who dined with me, and after dinner
mightily importuned by Captain Hicks, who came to tell my wife the names
and story of all the shells, which was a pretty present he made her the
other day. He being gone, Creed, my wife, and I to Cornhill, and after
many tryalls bought my wife a chintz, that is, a painted Indian callico,
for to line her new study, which is very pretty. So home with her, and
then I away (Creed being gone) to Captain Minors upon Tower Hill, and
there, abating only some impertinence of his, I did inform myself
well in things relating to the East Indys; both of the country and the
disappointment the King met with the last voyage, by the knavery of the
Portugall Viceroy, and the inconsiderablenesse of the place of Bombaim,

     [Bombay, which was transferred to the East India Company in 1669.
     The seat of the Western Presidency of India was removed from Surat
     to Bombay in 1685-87.]

if we had had it. But, above all things, it seems strange to me that
matters should not be understood before they went out; and also that
such a thing as this, which was expected to be one of the best parts of
the Queenâ€™s portion, should not be better understood; it being, if we
had it, but a poor place, and not really so as was described to our King
in the draught of it, but a poor little island; whereas they made the
King and Lord Chancellor, and other learned men about the King, believe
that that, and other islands which are near it, were all one piece; and
so the draught was drawn and presented to the King, and believed by the
King and expected to prove so when our men came thither; but it is quite
otherwise. Thence to my office, and after several letters writ, home to
supper and to bed, and took a pill. I hear this day that Sir W. Batten
was fain to put ashore at Queenborough with my Lady, who has been so
sick she swears never to go to sea again. But it happens well that
Holmes is come home into the Downes, where he will meet my Lady, and it
may be do her more good than she looked for. He brings news of the peace
between Tangier and the Moors, but the particulars I know not. He is
come but yesterday.