33s. per load, was as good and in the same terms. I told him that it
was not so, but that he and Sir W. Batten were both abused, and I would
prove it was as dear a bargain as had been made this half year, which
occasioned high words between them and me, but I am able to prove it and
will. That also was so ended, and so to other business. At noon Lewellin
coming to me I took him and Deane, and there met my uncle Thomas, and we
dined together, but was vexed that, it being washing-day, we had no meat
dressed, but sent to the Cook’s, and my people had so little witt to
send in our meat from abroad in that Cook’s dishes, which were marked
with the name of the Cook upon them, by which, if they observed
anything, they might know it was not my own dinner. After dinner we
broke up, and I by coach, setting down Luellin in Cheapside. So to White
Hall, where at the Committee of Tangier, but, Lord! how I was troubled
to see my Lord Tiviott’s accounts of L10,000 paid in that manner, and
wish 1000 times I had not been there. Thence rose with Sir G. Carteret
and to his lodgings, and there discoursed of our frays at the table
to-day, and particularly of that of the contract, and the contract of
masts the other day, declaring my fair dealing, and so needing not any
man’s good report of it, or word for it, and that I would make it so
appear to him, if he desired it, which he did, and I will do it. Thence
home by water in great pain, and at my office a while, and thence a
little to Sir W. Pen, and so home to bed, and finding myself beginning
to be troubled with wind as I used to be, and in pain in making water, I
took a couple of pills that I had by me of Mr. Hollyard’s.