28th (Lord’s day). Early in the morning my last night’s physic worked
and did give me a good stool, and then I rose and had three or four
stools, and walked up and down my chamber. Then up, my maid rose and
made me a posset, and by and by comes Mr. Creed, and he and I spent all
the morning discoursing against to-morrow before the Duke the business
of his pieces of eight, in which the Treasurer makes so many queries. At
noon, my physic having done working, I went down to dinner, and then
he and I up again and spent most of the afternoon reading in Cicero and
other books of good discourse, and then he went away, and then came my
brother Tom to see me, telling me how the Joyces do make themselves fine
clothes against Mary is brought to bed. He being gone I went to cast up
my monthly accounts, and to my great trouble I find myself L7 worse than
I was the last month, but I confess it is by my reckoning beforehand a
great many things, yet however I am troubled to see that I can hardly
promise myself to lay up much from month’s end to month’s end, about
L4 or L5 at most, one month with another, without some extraordinary
gettings, but I must and I hope I shall continue to have a care of my
own expenses. So to the reading my vows seriously and then to supper.
This evening there came my boy’s brother to see for him, and tells me he
knows not where he is, himself being out of town this week and is very
sorry that he is gone, and so am I, but he shall come no more. So to
prayers, and to bed.