4th. Up early and to Mr. Moore, and thence to Mr. Lovell about my law

business, and from him to Paul’s School, it being Apposition-day there.
I heard some of their speeches, and they were just as schoolboys’ used
to be, of the seven liberal sciences; but I think not so good as ours
were in our time. Away thence and to Bow Church, to the Court of Arches,
where a judge sits, and his proctors about him in their habits, and
their pleadings all in Latin. Here I was sworn to give a true answer to
my uncle’s libells, and so paid my fee for swearing, and back again to
Paul’s School, and went up to see the head forms posed in Latin, Greek,
and Hebrew, but I think they did not answer in any so well as we did,
only in geography they did pretty well: Dr. Wilkins and Outram were
examiners. So down to the school, where Dr. Crumlum did me much honour
by telling many what a present I had made to the school, shewing my
Stephanus, in four volumes, cost me L4 10s. He also shewed us, upon my
desire, an old edition of the grammar of Colett’s, where his epistle
to the children is very pretty; and in rehearsing the creed it is said
“borne of the cleane Virgin Mary.” Thence with Mr. Elborough (he being
all of my old acquaintance that I could meet with here) to a cook’s shop
to dinner, but I found him a fool, as he ever was, or worse. Thence to
my cozen Roger Pepys and Mr. Phillips about my law businesses, which
stand very bad, and so home to the office, where after doing some
business I went home, where I found our new mayde Mary, that is come in
Jane’s place.