20th. Up betimes and to my office (having first been angry with my
brother John, and in the heat of my sudden passion called him Asse and
coxcomb, for which I am sorry, it being but for leaving the key of his
chamber with a spring lock within side of his door), and there we sat
all the morning, and at noon dined at home, and there found a little
girl, which she told my wife her name was Jinny, by which name we shall
call her. I think a good likely girl, and a parish child of St. Brideâ€™s,
of honest parentage, and recommended by the churchwarden. After dinner
among my joyners laying my floors, which please me well, and so to my
office, and we sat this afternoon upon an extraordinary business of
victualling. In the evening came Commissioner Pett, who fell foule on
mee for my carriage to him at Chatham, wherein, after protestation of my
love and good meaning to him, he was quiet; but I doubt he will not be
able to do the service there that any other man of his ability would.
Home in the evening my viall (and lute new strung being brought home
too), and I would have paid Mr. Hunt for it, but he did not come along
with it himself, which I expected and was angry for it, so much is it
against my nature to owe anything to any body. This evening the girle
that was brought to me to-day for so good a one, being cleansed of lice
this day by my wife, and good, new clothes put on her back, she run away
from Goody Taylour that was shewing her the way to the bakehouse, and we
heard no more of her. So to supper and to bed.