Aug. 1st. Up betimes and got me ready, and so to the office and put
things in order for my going. By and by comes Sir G. Carteret, and
he and I did some business, and then Mr. Coventry sending for me, he
staying in the boat, I got myself presently ready and down to him, he
and I by water to Gravesend (his man Lambert with us), and there eat
a bit and so mounted, I upon one of his horses which met him there, a
brave proud horse, all the way talking of businesses of the office and
other matters to good purpose. Being come to Chatham, we put on our
boots and so walked to the yard, where we met Commissioner Pett, and
there walked up and down looking and inquiring into many businesses, and
in the evening went to the Commissioner’s and there in his upper Arbor
sat and talked, and there pressed upon the Commissioner to take upon him
a power to correct and suspend officers that do not their duty and other
things, which he unwillingly answered he would if we would own him in
it. Being gone thence Mr. Coventry and I did discourse about him, and
conclude that he is not able to do the same in that yard that he might
and can and it maybe will do in another, what with his old faults and
the relations that he has to most people that act there. After an hour
or two’s discourse at the Hill-house before going to bed, I see him to
his and he me to my chamber, he lying in the Treasurer’s and I in the
Controller’s chambers.