8th. Being weary, and going to bed late last night, I slept till 7
o’clock, it raining mighty hard, and so did every minute of the day
after sadly. But I know not what will become of the corn this year, we
having had but two fair days these many months. Up and to my office,
where all the morning busy, and then at noon home to dinner alone upon
a good dish of eeles, given me by Michell, the Bewpers’ man, and then
to my viall a little, and then down into the cellar and up and down with
Mr. Turner to see where his vault may be made bigger, or another made
him, which I think may well be. And so to my office, where very busy
all day setting things in order my contract books and preparing things
against the next sitting. In the evening I received letters out of the
country, among others from my wife, who methinks writes so coldly that
I am much troubled at it, and I fear shall have much ado to bring her
to her old good temper. So home to supper and musique, which is all
the pleasure I have of late given myself, or is fit I should, others
spending too much time and money. Going in I stepped to Sir W. Batten,
and there staid and talked with him (my Lady being in the country), and
sent for some lobsters, and Mrs. Turner came in, and did bring us an
umble pie hot out of her oven, extraordinary good, and afterwards some
spirits of her making, in which she has great judgment, very good, and
so home, merry with this night’s refreshment.