16th (Lord’s day). Up and with my wife to church, and finding her
desirous to go to church, I did suspect her meeting of Pembleton, but
he was not there, and so I thought my jealousy in vain, and treat the
sermon with great quiet. And home to dinner very pleasant, only some
angry, notwithstanding my wife could not forbear to give Ashwell, and
after dinner to church again, and there, looking up and down, I found
Pembleton to stand in the isle against us, he coming too late to get
a pew. Which, Lord! into what a sweat did it put me! I do not think my
wife did see him, which did a little satisfy me. But it makes me mad to
see of what a jealous temper I am and cannot helpe it, though let him do
what he can I do not see, as I am going to reduce my family, what hurt
he can do me, there being no more occasion now for my wife to learn of
him. Here preached a confident young coxcomb. So home, and I staid a
while with Sir J. Minnes, at Mrs. Turner’s, hearing his parrat talk,
laugh, and crow, which it do to admiration. So home and with my wife to
see Sir W. Pen, and thence to my uncle Wight, and took him at supper and
sat down, where methinks my uncle is more kind than he used to be both
to me now, and my father tell me to him also, which I am glad at. After
supper home, it being extraordinary dark, and by chance a lanthorn came
by, and so we hired it to light us home, otherwise were we no sooner
within doors but a great showre fell that had doused us cruelly if we
had not been within, it being as dark as pitch. So to prayers and to
bed.