30th. Rose very well, and my hearing pretty well again, and so to my
office, by and by Mr. Holliard come, and at my house he searched my ear,
and I hope all will be well, though I do not yet hear so well as I used
to do with my right ear. So to my office till noon, and then home to
dinner, and in the afternoon by water to White Hall, to the Tangier
Committee; where my Lord Tiviott about his accounts; which grieves me to
see that his accounts being to be examined by us, there are none of the
great men at the Board that in compliment will except against any thing
in his accounts, and so none of the little persons dare do it: so the
King is abused. Thence home again by water with Sir W. Rider, and so
to my office, and there I sat late making up my month’s accounts, and,
blessed be God, do find myself L760 creditor, notwithstanding that for
clothes for myself and wife, and layings out on her closett, I have
spent this month L47. So home, where I found our new cooke-mayde
Elizabeth, whom my wife never saw at all, nor I but once at a distance
before, but recommended well by Mr. Creed, and I hope will prove well.
So to supper, prayers, and bed. This evening Mr. Coventry is come to St.
James’s, but I did not go see him, and tomorrow the King, Queen, Duke
and his Lady, and the whole Court comes to towne from their progresse.
Myself and family well, only my father sicke in the country. All the
common talke for newes is the Turke’s advance in Hungary, &c.