14th. Up and to my office, where we met and sate all the morning, only
Mr. Coventry, which I think is the first or second time he has missed
since he came to the office, was forced to be absent. So home to dinner,
my wife and I upon a couple of ducks, and then by coach to the Temple,
where my uncle Thomas, and his sons both, and I, did meet at my
cozen Roger’s and there sign and seal to an agreement. Wherein I was
displeased at nothing but my cozen Roger’s insisting upon my being
obliged to settle upon them as the will do all my uncle’s estate that he
has left, without power of selling any for the payment of debts, but I
would not yield to it without leave of selling, my Lord Sandwich himself
and my cozen Thos. Pepys being judges of the necessity thereof, which
was done. One thing more that troubles me was my being forced to promise
to give half of what personal estate could be found more than L372,
which I reported to them, which though I do not know it to be less than
what we really have found, yet he would have been glad to have been at
liberty for that, but at last I did agree to it under my own handwriting
on the backside of the report I did make and did give them of the
estate, and have taken a copy of it upon the backside of one that I
have. All being done I took the father and his son Thos. home by coach,
and did pay them L30, the arrears of the father’s annuity, and with
great seeming love parted, and I presently to bed, my head akeing
mightily with the hot dispute I did hold with my cozen Roger and them in
the business.