12th. Up betimes, and by water to White Hall; and thence to Sir Philip
Warwick, and there had half an hour’s private discourse with him; and
did give him some good satisfaction in our Navy matters, and he also me,
as to the money paid and due to the Navy; so as he makes me assured by
particulars, that Sir G. Carteret is paid within L80,000 every farthing
that we to this day, nay to Michaelmas day next have demanded; and that,
I am sure, is above L50,000 snore than truly our expenses have been,
whatever is become of the money. Home with great content that I have
thus begun an acquaintance with him, who is a great man, and a man of as
much business as any man in England; which I will endeavour to deserve
and keep. Thence by water to my office, in here all the morning, and so
to the ‘Change at noon, and there by appointment met and bring home my
uncle Thomas, who resolves to go with me to Brampton on Monday next. I
wish he may hold his mind. I do not tell him, and yet he believes that
there is a Court to be that he is to do some business for us there. The
truth is I do find him a much more cunning fellow than I ever took him
for, nay in his very drink he has his wits about him. I took him home
to dinner, and after dinner he began, after a glass of wine or two, to
exclaim against Sir G. Carteret and his family in Jersey, bidding me to
have a care of him, and how high, proud, false, and politique a fellow
he is, and how low he has been under his command in the island. After
dinner, and long discourse, he went away to meet on Monday morning, and
I to my office, and thence by water to White Hall and Westminster
Hall about several businesses, and so home, and to my office writing a
laborious letter about our last account to my Lord Treasurer, which took
me to one o’clock in the morning,