15th. Up and all the morning at the office, among other things with
Cooper the Purveyor, whose dullness in his proceeding in his work I was
vexed at, and find that though he understands it may be as much as other
men that profess skill in timber, yet I perceive that many things, they
do by rote, and very dully. Thence home to dinner, whither Captain Grove
came and dined with me, he going into the country to-day; among other
discourse he told me of discourse very much to my honour, both as to my
care and ability, happening at the Duke of Albemarleâ€™s table the other
day, both from the Duke, and the Duchess themselves; and how I paid so
much a year to him whose place it was of right, and that Mr. Coventry
did report thus of me; which was greatly to my content, knowing how
against their minds I was brought into the Navy. Thence by water to
Westminster, and there spent a good deal of time walking in the Hall,
which is going to be repaired, and, God forgive me, had a mind to have
got Mrs. Lane abroad, or fallen in with any woman else (in that hot
humour). But it so happened she could not go out, nor I meet with any
body else, and so I walked homeward, and in my way did many and great
businesses of my own at the Temple among my lawyers and others to my
great content, thanking God that I did not fall into any company to
occasion spending time and money. To supper, and then to a little viall
and to bed, sporting in my fancy with the Queen.