28th. Up and by coach to my Lord’s lodgings, but he was gone abroad, so
I lost my pains, but, however, walking through White Hall I heard the
King was gone to play at Tennis, so I down to the new Tennis Court; and
saw him and Sir Arthur Slingsby play against my Lord of Suffolke and my
Lord Chesterfield. The King beat three, and lost two sets, they all, and
he particularly playing well, I thought. Thence went and spoke with the
Duke of Albemarle about his wound at Newhall, but I find him a heavy
dull man, methinks, by his answers to me. Thence to the King’s Head
ordinary and there dined, and found Creed there, but we met and dined
and parted without any thing more than “How do you?” After dinner
straight on foot to Mr. Hollyard’s, and there paid him L3 in full for
his physic and work to my wife.... but whether it is cured for ever or
no I cannot tell, but he says it will never come to anything, though it
may be it may ooze now and then a little. So home and found my wife gone
out with Will (whom she sent for as she do now a days upon occasion) to
have a tooth drawn, she having it seems been in great pain all day, and
at night came home with it drawn, and pretty well. This evening I had a
stove brought me to the office to try, but it being an old one it smokes
as much as if there was nothing but a hearth as I had before, but it may
be great new ones do not, and therefore I must enquire further. So at
night home to supper and to bed. The Duchesse of York is fallen sicke of
the meazles.