1661.]--and will not suffer one pasquill to come forth against him; and
that he acts by what directions he received from him before his death.
Having discoursed long with him, I took him by coach and set him down at
my Lord Crew’s, and myself went and dined at Mr. Povy’s, where Orlando
Massam, Mr. Wilks, a Wardrobe man, myself and Mr. Gawden, and had just
such another dinner as I had the other day there. But above all things
I do the most admire his piece of perspective especially, he opening me
the closett door, and there I saw that there is nothing but only a plain
picture hung upon the wall. After dinner Mr. Gauden and I to settle the
business of the Tangier victualling, which I perceive none of them yet
have hitherto understood but myself. Thence by coach to White Hall, and
met upon the Tangier Commission, our greatest business the discoursing
of getting things ready for my Lord Rutherford to go about the middle
of March next, and a proposal of Sir J. Lawson’s and Mr. Cholmely’s
concerning undertaking the Mole, which is referred to another time. So
by coach home, being melancholy, overcharged with business, and methinks
I fear that I have some ill offices done to Mr. Coventry, or else he
observes that of late I have not despatched business so as I did use to
do, which I confess I do acknowledge. But it may be it is but my fear
only, he is not so fond as he used to be of me. But I do believe that
Sir W. Batten has made him believe that I do too much crow upon having
his kindness, and so he may on purpose to countenance him seem a little
more strange to me, but I will study hard to bring him back again to the
same degree of kindness. So home, and after a little talk with my wife,
to the office, and did a great deal of business there till very late,
and then home to supper and to bed.