8th (Lord’s day). Being sent to by Sir J. Minnes to know whether I would
go with him to White Hall to-day, I rose but could not get ready before
he was gone, but however I walked thither and heard Dr. King, Bishop of
Chichester, make a good and eloquent sermon upon these words, “They that
sow in tears, shall reap in joy.” Thence (the chappell in Lent being
hung with black, and no anthem sung after sermon, as at other times), to
my Lord Sandwich at Sir W. Wheeler’s. I found him out of order, thinking
himself to be in a fit of an ague, but in the afternoon he was very
cheery. I dined with Sir William, where a good but short dinner, not
better than one of mine commonly of a Sunday. After dinner up to my
Lord, there being Mr. Kumball. My Lord, among other discourse, did tell
us of his great difficultys passed in the business of the Sound, and
of his receiving letters from the King there, but his sending them by
Whetstone was a great folly; and the story how my Lord being at dinner
with Sydney, one of his fellow plenipotentiarys and his mortal enemy,
did see Whetstone, and put off his hat three times to him, but the
fellow would not be known, which my Lord imputed to his coxcombly humour
(of which he was full), and bid Sydney take notice of him too, when at
the very time he had letters in his pocket from the King, as it proved
afterwards. And Sydney afterwards did find it out at Copenhagen, the
Dutch Commissioners telling him how my Lord Sandwich had hired one
of their ships to carry back Whetstone to Lubeck, he being come from
Flanders from the King. But I cannot but remember my Lord’s aequanimity
in all these affairs with admiration. Thence walked home, in my way
meeting Mr. Moore, with whom I took a turn or two in the street among
the drapers in Paul’s Churchyard, talking of business, and so home to
bed.