10. They mill them, that is, put on the marks on both sides at once with
great exactness and speed, and then the money is perfect. The mill is
after this manner: one of the dyes, which has one side of the piece cut,
is fastened to a thing fixed below, and the other dye (and they tell me
a payre of dyes will last the marking of L10,000 before it be worn out,
they and all other their tools being made of hardened steel, and the
Dutchman who makes them is an admirable artist, and has so much by the
pound for every pound that is coyned to find a constant supply of dyes)
to an engine above, which is moveable by a screw, which is pulled by
men; and then a piece being clapped by one sitting below between the two
dyes, when they meet the impression is set, and then the man with his
finger strikes off the piece and claps another in, and then the other
men they pull again and that is marked, and then another and another
with great speed. They say that this way is more charge to the King than
the old way, but it is neater, freer from clipping or counterfeiting,
the putting of the words upon the edges being not to be done (though
counterfeited) without an engine of the charge and noise that no
counterfeit will be at or venture upon, and it employs as many men as
the old and speedier. They now coyne between L16 and L24,000 in a week.
At dinner they did discourse very finely to us of the probability that
there is a vast deal of money hid in the land, from this:--that in King
Charles’s time there was near ten millions of money coyned, besides what
was then in being of King James’s and Queene Elizabeth’s, of which there
is a good deal at this day in being. Next, that there was but L750,000
coyned of the Harp and Crosse money,

     [The Commonwealth coins (stamped with the cross and harp, and the
     inscription, “The Commonwealth of England”) were called in by
     proclamation, September, 1660, and when brought to the Mint an equal
     amount of lawful money was allowed for them, weight for weight,
     deducting only for the coinage (Ruding’s “Annals of the Coinage,” 18