4th. Up, and my new Taylor, Langford, comes and takes measure of me
for a new black cloth suit and cloake, and I think he will prove a
very carefull fellow and will please me well. Thence to attend my Lord
Peterborough in bed and give him an account of yesterday’s proceeding
with Povy. I perceive I labour in a business will bring me little
pleasure; but no matter, I shall do the King some service. To my Lord’s
lodgings, where during my Lady’s sickness he is, there spoke with him
about the same business. Back and by water to my cozen Scott’s. There
condoled with him the loss of my cozen, his wife, and talked about his
matters, as atturney to my father, in his administering to my brother
Tom. He tells me we are like to receive some shame about the business
of his bastarde with Jack Noble; but no matter, so it cost us no money.
Thence to the Coffee-house and to the ‘Change a while. News uncertain
how the Dutch proceed. Some say for, some against a war. The plague
increases at Amsterdam. So home to dinner, and after dinner to my
office, where very late, till my eyes (which begin to fail me nowadays
by candlelight) begin to trouble me. Only in the afternoon comes Mr.
Peter Honiwood to see me and gives me 20s., his and his friends’ pence
for my brother John, which, God forgive my pride, methinks I think
myself too high to take of him; but it is an ungratefull pitch of pride
in me, which God forgive. Home at night to supper and to bed.