5th. Up and to our office, where we sat all the morning, where my head
being willing to take in all business whatever, I am afraid I shall over
clogg myself with it. But however, it is my desire to do my duty and
shall the willinger bear it. At noon home and to the ‘Change, where I
met with Luellin, who went off with me and parted to meet again at the
Coffeehouse, but missed. So home and found him there, and Mr. Barrow
came to speak with me, so they both dined with me alone, my wife
not being ready, and after dinner I up in my chamber with Barrow to
discourse about matters of the yard with him, and his design of leaving
the place, which I am sorry for, and will prevent if I can. He being
gone then Luellin did give me the L50 from Mr. Deering, which he do give
me for my pains in his business and what I may hereafter take for him,
though there is not the least word or deed I have yet been guilty of in
his behalf but what I am sure has been to the King’s advantage and the
profit of the service, nor ever will. And for this money I never did
condition with him or expected a farthing at the time when I did do him
the service, nor have given any receipt for it, it being brought me by
Luellin, nor do purpose to give him any thanks for it, but will wherein
I can faithfully endeavour to see him have the privilege of his Patent
as the King’s merchant. I did give Luellin two pieces in gold for a pair
of gloves for his kindness herein. Then he being gone, I to my
office, where busy till late at night, that through my room being over
confounded in business I could stay there no longer, but went home, and
after a little supper to bed.