21st. (Lord’s day). Up, and having many businesses at the office to-day
I spent all the morning there drawing up a letter to Mr. Coventry about
preserving of masts, being collections of my own, and at noon home to
dinner, whither my brother Tom comes, and after dinner I took him up and
read my letter lately of discontent to my father, and he is seemingly
pleased at it, and cries out of my sister’s ill nature and lazy life
there. He being gone I to my office again, and there made an end of my
morning’s work, and then, after reading my vows of course, home and back
again with Mr. Maes and walked with him talking of his business in the
garden, and he being gone my wife and I walked a turn or two also, and
then my uncle Wight fetching of us, she and I to his house to supper,
and by the way calling on Sir G. Carteret to desire his consent to my
bringing Maes to him, which he agreed to. So I to my uncle’s, but staid
a great while vexed both of us for Maes not coming in, and soon he came,
and I with him from supper to Sir G. Carteret, and there did largely
discourse of the business, and I believe he may expect as much favour as
he can do him, though I fear that will not be much. So back, and after
sitting there a good while, we home, and going my wife told me how my
uncle when he had her alone did tell her that he did love her as well
as ever he did, though he did not find it convenient to show it publicly
for reasons on both sides, seeming to mean as well to prevent my
jealousy as his wife’s, but I am apt to think that he do mean us well,
and to give us something if he should die without children. So home
to prayers and to bed. My wife called up the people to washing by four
o’clock in the morning; and our little girl Susan is a most admirable
Slut and pleases us mightily, doing more service than both the others
and deserves wages better.