14th. Up and to the office, where all the morning, and at noon all
of us, viz., Sir G. Carteret and Sir W. Batten at one end, and Mr.
Coventry, Sir J. Minnes and I (in the middle at the other end, being
taught how to sit there all three by my sitting so much the backwarder)
at the other end, to Sir G. Carteret’s, and there dined well. Here I saw
Mr. Scott, the bastard that married his youngest daughter. Much pleasant
talk at table, and then up and to the office, where we sat long upon our
design of dividing the Controller’s work into some of the rest of our
hands for the better doing of it, but he would not yield to it, though
the simple man knows in his heart that he do not do one part of it. So
he taking upon him to do it all we rose, I vexed at the heart to see the
King’s service run after this manner, but it cannot be helped. Thence to
the Old James to the reference about Mr. Bland’s business. Sir W.
Rider being now added to us, and I believe we shall soon come to some
determination in it. So home and to my office, did business, and then up
to Sir W. Pen and did express my trouble about this day’s business, he
not being there, and plainly told him what I thought of it, and though I
know him a false fellow yet I adventured, as I have done often, to tell
him clearly my opinion of Sir W. Batten and his design in this business,
which is very bad. Hence home, and after a lecture to my wife in her
globes, to prayers and to bed.