29th. Up betimes, intending to do business at my office, by 5 o’clock,
but going out met at my door Mr. Hughes come to speak with me about
office business, and told me that as he came this morning from Deptford
he left the King’s yarde a-fire. So I presently took a boat and down,
and there found, by God’s providence, the fire out; but if there had
been any wind it must have burned all our stores, which is a most
dreadfull consideration. But leaving all things well I home, and out
abroad doing many errands, Mr. Creed also out, and my wife to her
mother’s, and Creed and I met at my Lady Sandwich’s and there dined; but
my Lady is become as handsome, I think, as ever she was; and so good and
discreet a woman I know not in the world. After dinner I to Westminster
to Jervas’s a while, and so doing many errands by the way, and necessary
ones, I home, and thither came the woman with her mother which our Will
recommends to my wife. I like her well, and I think will please us. My
wife and they agreed, and she is to come the next week. At which I am
very well contented, for then I hope we shall be settled, but I must
remember that, never since I was housekeeper, I ever lived so quietly,
without any noise or one angry word almost, as I have done since my
present mayds Besse, Jane, and Susan came and were together. Now I have
taken a boy and am taking a woman, I pray God we may not be worse, but I
will observe it. After being at my office a while, home to supper and to
bed.