21st. Up, and after evening reckonings to this day with Mr. Bridges,
the linnen draper, for callicos, I out to Doctors’ Commons, where by
agreement my cozen Roger and I did meet my cozen Dr. Tom Pepys, and
there a great many and some high words on both sides, but I must
confess I was troubled; first, to find my cozen Roger such a simple but
well-meaning man as he is; next to think that my father, out of folly
and vain glory, should now and then (as by their words I gather) be
speaking how he had set up his son Tom with his goods and house, and now
these words are brought against him--I fear to the depriving him of all
the profit the poor man intended to make of the lease of his house and
sale of his owne goods. I intend to make a quiet end if I can with the
Doctor, being a very foul-tounged fool and of great inconvenience to
be at difference with such a one that will make the base noise about it
that he will. Thence, very much vexed to find myself so much troubled
about other men’s matters, I to Mrs. Turner’s, in Salsbury Court, and
with her a little, and carried her, the porter staying for me, our
eagle, which she desired the other day, and we were glad to be rid of
her, she fouling our house of office mightily. They are much pleased
with her. And thence I home and after dinner to the office, where Sir
W. Rider and Cutler come, and in dispute I very high with them against
their demands, I hope to no hurt to myself, for I was very plain with
them to the best of my reason. So they gone I home to supper, then to
the office again and so home to bed. My Lord Sandwich this day writes
me word that he hath seen (at Portsmouth) the Comet, and says it is the
most extraordinary thing that ever he saw.