27th. Up and to the office, where all the morning. At noon to the
‘Change, and there almost made my bargain about a ship for Tangier,
which will bring me in a little profit with Captain Taylor. Off the
‘Change with Mr. Cutler and Sir W. Rider to Cutler’s house, and there
had a very good dinner, and two or three pretty young ladies of their
relations there. Thence to my case-maker for my stone case, and had it
to my mind, and cost me 24s., which is a great deale of money, but it is
well done and pleases me. So doing some other small errands I home, and
there find my boy, Tom Edwards, come, sent me by Captain Cooke, having
been bred in the King’s Chappell these four years. I propose to make a
clerke of him, and if he deserves well, to do well by him. Spent much
of the afternoon to set his chamber in order, and then to the office
leaving him at home, and late at night after all business was done I
called Will and told him my reason of taking a boy, and that it is
of necessity, not out of any unkindness to him, nor should be to his
injury, and then talked about his landlord’s daughter to come to my
wife, and I think it will be. So home and find my boy a very schoole
boy, that talks innocently and impertinently, but at present it is a
sport to us, and in a little time he will leave it. So sent him to bed,
he saying that he used to go to bed at eight o’clock, and then all of
us to bed, myself pretty well pleased with my choice of a boy. All the
newes this day is, that the Dutch are, with twenty-two sayle of ships
of warr, crewsing up and down about Ostend; at which we are alarmed. My
Lord Sandwich is come back into the Downes with only eight sayle,
which is or may be a prey to the Dutch, if they knew our weakness and
inability to set out any more speedily.