25th. Up and by coach to Whitehall to my Lord’s lodgings, and seeing
that knowing that I was in the house, my Lord did not nevertheless send
for me up, I did go to the Duke’s lodgings, and there staid while he was
making ready, in which time my Lord Sandwich came, and so all into his
closet and did our common business, and so broke up, and I homeward by
coach with Sir W. Batten, and staid at Warwicke Lane and there called
upon Mr. Commander and did give him my last will and testament to write
over in form, and so to the ‘Change, where I did several businesses.
So home to dinner, and after I had dined Luellin came and we set him
something to eat, and I left him there with my wife, and to the office
upon a particular meeting of the East India Company, where I think I
did the King good service against the Company in the business of their
sending our ships home empty from the Indies contrary to their contract,
and yet, God forgive me! I found that I could be willing to receive a
bribe if it were offered me to conceal my arguments that I found against
them, in consideration that none of my fellow officers, whose duty it is
more than mine, had ever studied the case, or at this hour do understand
it, and myself alone must do it. That being done Mr. Povy and Bland came
to speak with me about their business of the reference, wherein I shall
have some more trouble, but cannot help it, besides I hope to make some
good use of Mr. Povy to my advantage. So home after business done at my
office, to supper, and then to the globes with my wife, and so to bed.
Troubled a little in mind that my Lord Sandwich should continue this
strangeness to me that methinks he shows me now a days more than while
the thing was fresh.