31st. Up by five o’clock and to my office, where T. Hater and Will met
me, and so we dispatched a great deal of my business as to the ordering
my papers and books which were behindhand. All the morning very busy at
my office. At noon home to dinner, and there my wife hath got me some
pretty good oysters, which is very soon and the soonest, I think, I ever
eat any. After dinner I up to hear my boy play upon a lute, which I have
this day borrowed of Mr. Hunt; and indeed the boy would, with little
practice, play very well upon the lute, which pleases me well. So by
coach to the Tangier Committee, and there have another small business by
which I may get a little small matter of money. Staid but little there,
and so home and to my office, where late casting up my monthly accounts,
and, blessed be God! find myself worth L1020, which is still the most I
ever was worth. So home and to bed. Prince Rupert I hear this day is to
go to command this fleete going to Guinny against the Dutch. I doubt few
will be pleased with his going, being accounted an unhappy’ man. My mind
at good rest, only my father’s troubles with Dr. Pepys and my brother
Tom’s creditors in general do trouble me. I have got a new boy that
understands musique well, as coming to me from the King’s Chappell, and
I hope will prove a good boy, and my wife and I are upon having a woman,
which for her content I am contented to venture upon the charge of
again, and she is one that our’ Will finds out for us, and understands
a little musique, and I think will please us well, only her friends live
too near us. Pretty well in health, since I left off wearing of a gowne
within doors all day, and then go out with my legs into the cold, which
brought me daily pain.