22nd. Up and abroad, doing very many errands to my great content which
lay as burdens upon my mind and memory. Home to dinner, and so to
White Hall, setting down my wife at her father’s, and I to the Tangier
Committee, where several businesses I did to my mind, and with hopes
thereby to get something. So to Westminster Hall, where by appointment
I had made I met with Dr. Tom Pepys, but avoided all discourse of
difference with him, though much against my will, and he like a doating
coxcomb as he is, said he could not but demand his money, and that he
would have his right, and that let all anger be forgot, and such sorry
stuff, nothing to my mind, but only I obtained this satisfaction, that
he told me about Sturbridge last was 12 months or 2 years he was at
Brampton, and there my father did tell him that what he had done for my
brother in giving him his goods and setting him up as he had done was
upon condition that he should give my brother John L20 per ann., which
he charged upon my father, he tells me in answer, as a great deal of
hard measure that he should expect that with him that had a brother so
able as I am to do that for him. This is all that he says he can say as
to my father’s acknowledging that he had given Tom his goods. He says
his brother Roger will take his oath that my father hath given him
thanks for his counsel for his giving of Tom his goods and setting him
up in the manner that he hath done, but the former part of this he did
not speak fully so bad nor as certain what he could say. So we walked
together to my cozen Joyce’s, where my wife staid for me, and then I
home and her by coach, and so to my office, then to supper and to bed.