24th. Having sat up all night to past two o’clock this morning, our
porter, being appointed, comes and tells us that the bellman tells him
that the star is seen upon Tower Hill; so I, that had been all night
setting in order all my old papers in my chamber, did leave off all,
and my boy and I to Tower Hill, it being a most fine, bright moonshine
night, and a great frost; but no Comet to be seen. So after running once
round the Hill, I and Tom, we home and then to bed. Rose about 9 o’clock
and then to the office, where sitting all the morning. At noon to the
‘Change, to the Coffee-house; and there heard Sir Richard Ford tell the
whole story of our defeat at Guinny. Wherein our men are guilty of the
most horrid cowardice and perfidiousness, as he says and tells it, that
ever Englishmen were. Captain Raynolds, that was the only commander of
any of the King’s ships there, was shot at by De Ruyter, with a bloody
flag flying. He, instead of opposing (which, indeed, had been to no
purpose, but only to maintain honour), did poorly go on board himself,
to ask what De Ruyter would have; and so yielded to whatever Ruyter
would desire. The King and Duke are highly vexed at it, it seems, and
the business deserves it. Thence home to dinner, and then abroad to buy
some things, and among others to my bookseller’s, and there saw several
books I spoke for, which are finely bound and good books to my great
content. So home and to my office, where late. This evening I being
informed did look and saw the Comet, which is now, whether worn away
or no I know not, but appears not with a tail, but only is larger and
duller than any other star, and is come to rise betimes, and to make a
great arch, and is gone quite to a new place in the heavens than it was
before: but I hope in a clearer night something more will be seen. So
home to bed.