14th. Up betimes, and after my father’s eating something, I walked out
with him as far as Milk Streete, he turning down to Cripplegate to take
coach; and at the end of the streete I took leave, being much afeard I
shall not see him here any more, he do decay so much every day, and so
I walked on, there being never a coach to be had till I came to Charing
Cross, and there Col. Froud took me up and carried me to St. James’s,
where with Mr. Coventry and Povy, &c., about my Lord Peterborough’s
accounts, but, Lord! to see still what a puppy that Povy is with all his
show is very strange. Thence to Whitehall and W. C[oventry] and I and
Sir W. Rider resolved upon a day to meet and make an end of all the
business. Thence walked with Creed to the Coffee-house in Covent Garden,
where no company, but he told me many fine experiments at Gresham
College; and some demonstration that the heat and cold of the weather
do rarify and condense the very body of glasse, as in a bolt head’ with
cold water in it put into hot water, shall first by rarifying the glasse
make the water sink, and then when the heat comes to the water makes
that rise again, and then put into cold water makes the water by
condensing the glass to rise, and then when the cold comes to the water
makes it sink, which is very pretty and true, he saw it tried. Thence by
coach home, and dined above with my wife by her bedside, she keeping her
bed..... So to the office, where a great conflict with Wood and Castle
about their New England masts? So in the evening my mind a little vexed,
but yet without reason, for I shall prevail, I hope, for the King’s
profit, and so home to supper and to bed.