11th. Up and all day, both forenoon and afternoon, at my office to see
it finished by the joyners and washed and every thing in order, and
indeed now my closet is very convenient and pleasant for me. My uncle
Wight came to me to my office this afternoon to speak with me about Mr.
Maes’s business again, and from me went to my house to see my wife, and
strange to think that my wife should by and by send for me after he was
gone to tell me that he should begin discourse of her want of children
and his also, and how he thought it would be best for him and her to
have one between them, and he would give her L500 either in money or
jewells beforehand, and make the child his heir. He commended her body,
and discoursed that for all he knew the thing was lawful. She says she
did give him a very warm answer, such as he did not excuse himself by
saying that he said this in jest, but told her that since he saw what
her mind was he would say no more to her of it, and desired her to make
no words of it. It seemed he did say all this in a kind of counterfeit
laugh, but by all words that passed, which I cannot now so well set
down, it is plain to me that he was in good earnest, and that I fear
all his kindness is but only his lust to her. What to think of it of a
sudden I know not, but I think not to take notice yet of it to him till
I have thought better of it. So with my mind and head a little troubled
I received a letter from Mr. Coventry about a mast for the Duke’s yacht,
which with other business makes me resolve to go betimes to Woolwich
to-morrow. So to supper and to bed.