14th. Up, and wanting some things that should be laid ready for my
dressing myself I was angry, and one thing after another made my wife
give Besse warning to be gone, which the jade, whether out of fear or
ill-nature or simplicity I know not, but she took it and asked leave
to go forth to look a place, and did, which vexed me to the heart, she
being as good a natured wench as ever we shall have, but only forgetful.
At the office all the morning and at noon to the ‘Change, and there went
off with Sir W. Warren and took occasion to desire him to lend me L100,
which he said he would let the have with all his heart presently, as he
had promised me a little while ago to give me for my pains in his two
great contracts for masts L100, and that this should be it. To which end
I did move it to him, and by this means I hope to be, possessed of the
L100 presently within 2 or 3 days. So home to dinner, and then to the
office, and down to Blackwall by water to view a place found out for
laying of masts, and I think it will be most proper. So home and there
find Mr. Pen come to visit my wife, and staid with them till sent for to
Mr. Bland’s, whither by appointment I was to go to supper, and against
my will left them together, but, God knows, without any reason of fear
in my conscience of any evil between them, but such is my natural folly.
Being thither come they would needs have my wife, and so Mr. Bland and
his wife (the first time she was ever at my house or my wife at hers)
very civilly went forth and brought her and W. Pen, and there Mr. Povy
and we supped nobly and very merry, it being to take leave of Mr. Bland,
who is upon going soon to Tangier. So late home and to bed.