5th. Up, and in Sir W. Battenâ€™s coach to White Hall, but the Duke
being gone forth, I to Westminster Hall, and there spent much time till
towards noon to and fro with people. So by and by Mrs. Lane comes and
plucks me by the cloak to speak to me, and I was fain to go to her
shop, and pretending to buy some bands made her go home, and by and by
followed her, and there did what I would with her, and so after many
discourses and her intreating me to do something for her husband, which
I promised to do, and buying a little band of her, which I intend to
keep to, I took leave, there coming a couple of footboys to her with a
coach to fetch her abroad I know not to whom. She is great with child,
and she says I must be godfather, but I do not intend it. Thence by
coach to the Old Exchange, and there hear that the Dutch are fitting
their ships out again, which puts us to new discourse, and to alter our
thoughts of the Dutch, as to their want of courage or force. Thence by
appointment to the White Horse Taverne in Lumbard Streete, and there
dined with my Lord Rutherford, Povy, Mr. Gauden, Creed, and others, and
very merry, and after dinner among other things Povy and I withdrew, and
I plainly told him that I was concerned in profit, but very justly,
in this business of the Bill that I have been these two or three days
about, and he consents to it, and it shall be paid. He tells me how he
believes, and in part knows, Creed to be worth L10,000; nay, that now
and then he [Povy] hath three or L4,000 in his hands, for which he gives
the interest that the King gives, which is ten per cent., and that Creed
do come and demand it every three months the interest to be paid him,
which Povy looks upon as a cunning and mean tricke of him; but for all
that, he will do and is very rich. Thence to the office, where we sat
and where Mr. Coventry came the first time after his return from sea,
which I was glad of. So after office to my office, and then home to
supper, and to my office again, and then late home to bed.