20th. Up and by coach to Westminster, and there solicited W. Joyce’s
business all the morning, and meeting in the Hall with Mr. Coventry, he
told me how the Committee for Trade have received now all the complaints
of the merchants against the Dutch, and were resolved to report very
highly the wrongs they have done us (when, God knows! it is only our
owne negligence and laziness that hath done us the wrong) and this to be
made to the House to-morrow. I went also out of the Hall with Mrs. Lane
to the Swan at Mrs. Herbert’s in the Palace Yard to try a couple of
bands, and did (though I had a mind to be playing the fool with her)
purposely stay but a little while, and kept the door open, and called
the master and mistress of the house one after another to drink and talk
with me, and showed them both my old and new bands. So that as I did
nothing so they are able to bear witness that I had no opportunity there
to do anything. Thence by coach with Sir W. Pen home, calling at the
Temple for Lawes’s Psalms, which I did not so much (by being against my
oath) buy as only lay down money till others be bound better for me, and
by that time I hope to get money of the Treasurer of the Navy by bills,
which, according to my oath, shall make me able to do it. At home dined,
and all the afternoon at a Committee of the Chest, and at night comes
my aunt and uncle Wight and Nan Ferrers and supped merrily with me,
my uncle coming in an hour after them almost foxed. Great pleasure by
discourse with them, and so, they gone, late to bed.