30th. Up, and to the office, where we sat all the morning. At noon home
to dinner, Mr. Wayth with me, and by and by comes in Mr. Falconer and
his wife and dined with us, the first time she was ever here. We had a
pretty good dinner, very merry in discourse, sat after dinner an hour or
two, then down by water to Deptford and Woolwich about getting of some
business done which I was bound to by my oath this month, and though
in some things I have not come to the height of my vow of doing all my
business in paying all my petty debts and receipt of all my petty monies
due to me, yet I bless God I am not conscious of any neglect in me that
they are not done, having not minded my pleasure at all, and so being
resolved to take no manner of pleasure till it be done, I doubt not God
will forgive me for not forfeiting the L10 promised. Walked back from
Woolwich to Greenwich all alone, save a man that had a cudgell in his
hand, and, though he told me he laboured in the King’s yarde, and many
other good arguments that he is an honest man, yet, God forgive me! I
did doubt he might knock me on the head behind with his club. But I got
safe home. Then to the making up my month’s accounts, and find myself
still a gainer and rose to L951, for which God be blessed. I end the
month with my mind full of business and some sorrow that I have not
exactly performed all my vowes, though my not doing is not my fault, and
shall be made good out of my first leisure. Great doubts yet whether the
Dutch wary go on or no. The Fleet ready in the Hope, of twelve sayle.
The King and Queenes go on board, they say, on Saturday next. Young
children of my Lord Sandwich gone with their mayds from my mother’s,
which troubles me, it being, I hear from Mr. Shepley, with great
discontent, saying, that though they buy good meate, yet can never have
it before it stinks, which I am ashamed of.