21st. Up, and by coach to Mr. Povy’s, and there got him to signe the
payment of Captain Tayler’s bills for the remainder of freight for
the Eagle, wherein I shall be gainer about L30, thence with him to
Westminster by coach to Houseman’s [Huysman] the great picture drawer,
and saw again very fine pictures, and have his promise, for Mr. Povy’s
sake, to take pains in what picture I shall set him about, and I think
to have my wife’s. But it is a strange thing to observe and fit for me
to remember that I am at no time so unwilling to part with money as when
I am concerned in the getting of it most, as I thank God of late I have
got more in this month, viz. near 0250, than ever I did in half a year
before in my life, I think. Thence to White Hall with him, and so walked
to the old Exchange and back to Povy’s to dinner, where great and good
company; among others Sir John Skeffington, whom I knew at Magdalen
College, a fellow-commoner, my fellow-pupil, but one with whom I had no
great acquaintance, he being then, God knows, much above me. Here I
was afresh delighted with Mr. Povy’s house and pictures of perspective,
being strange things to think how they do delude one’s eye, that
methinks it would make a man doubtful of swearing that ever he saw any
thing. Thence with him to St. James’s, and so to White Hall to a Tangier
Committee, and hope I have light of another opportunity of getting a
little money if Sir W. Warren will use me kindly for deales to Tangier,
and with the hopes went joyfully home, and there received Captain
Tayler’s money, received by Will to-day, out of which (as I said above)
I shall get above L30. So with great comfort to bed, after supper. By
discourse this day I have great hopes from Mr. Coventry that the Dutch
and we shall not fall out.