22nd. Having directed it last night, I was called up this morning before
four o’clock. It was full light enough to dress myself, and so by water
against tide, it being a little coole, to Greenwich; and thence, only
that it was somewhat foggy till the sun got to some height, walked with
great pleasure to Woolwich, in my way staying several times to listen
to the nightingales. I did much business both at the Ropeyarde and the
other, and on floate I discovered a plain cheat which in time I shall
publish of Mr. Ackworth’s. Thence, having visited Mr. Falconer also,
who lies still sick, but hopes to be better, I walked to Greenwich, Mr.
Deane with me. Much good discourse, and I think him a very just man,
only a little conceited, but yet very able in his way, and so he by
water also with me also to towne. I home, and immediately dressing
myself, by coach with my wife to my Lord Sandwich’s, but they having
dined we would not ‘light but went to Mrs. Turner’s, and there got
something to eat, and thence after reading part of a good play, Mrs.
The., my wife and I, in their coach to Hide Parke, where great plenty of
gallants, and pleasant it was, only for the dust. Here I saw Mrs. Bendy,
my Lady Spillman’s faire daughter that was, who continues yet very
handsome. Many others I saw with great content, and so back again to
Mrs. Turner’s, and then took a coach and home. I did also carry them
into St. James’s Park and shewed them the garden. To my office awhile
while supper was making ready, and so home to supper and to bed.