23rd. Up, and to the office, and there we sat all the morning. So to
the â€˜Change, and then home to dinner and to my office, where till 10
at night very busy, and so home to supper and to bed. My cozen, Thomas
Pepys, was with me yesterday and I took occasion to speak to him about
the bond I stand bound for my Lord Sandwich to him in L1000. I did very
plainly, obliging him to secrecy, tell him how the matter stands, yet
with all duty to my Lord my resolution to be bound for whatever he
desires me for him, yet that I would be glad he had any other security.
I perceive by Mr. Moore today that he hath been with my Lord, and my
Lord how he takes it I know not, but he is looking after other security
and I am mighty glad of it. W. Howe was with me this afternoon, to
desire some things to be got ready for my Lord against his going down to
his ship, which will be soon; for it seems the King and both the Queenes
intend to visit him. The Lord knows how my Lord will get out of this
charge; for Mr. Moore tells me to-day that he is L10,000 in debt and
this will, with many other things that daily will grow upon him (while
he minds his pleasure as he do), set him further backward. But it was
pretty this afternoon to hear W. Howe mince the matter, and say that he
do believe that my Lord is in debt L2000 or L3000, and then corrected
himself and said, No, not so, but I am afraid he is in debt L1000. I
pray God gets me well rid of his Lordship as to his debt, and I care
not.