18th. Up, being troubled to find my wife so ready to have me go out of
doors. God forgive me for my jealousy! but I cannot forbear, though God
knows I have no reason to do so, or to expect her being so true to me
as I would have her. I abroad to White Hall, where the Court all in
mourning for the Duchesse of Savoy. We did our business with the Duke,
and so I to W. Howe at my Lord’s lodgings, not seeing my Lord, he being
abroad, and there I advised with W. Howe about my having my Lord to
dinner at my house, who likes it well, though it troubles me that I
should come to need the advice of such a boy, but for the present it is
necessary. Here I found Mr. Mallard, and had from him a common tune set
by my desire to the Lyra Vyall, which goes most admirably. Thence home
by coach to the ‘Change, after having been at the Coffee-house, where I
hear Turner is found guilty of felony and burglary; and strange stories
of his confidence at the barr, but yet great indiscretion in his
argueing. All desirous of his being hanged. So home and found that Will
had been with my wife. But, Lord! why should I think any evil of that;
and yet I cannot forbear it. But upon enquiry, though I found no reason
of doubtfulness, yet I could not bring my nature to any quiet or content
in my wife all day and night, nor though I went with her to divert
myself at my uncle Wight’s, and there we played at cards till 12 at
night and went home in a great shower of rain, it having not rained
a great while before. Here was one Mr. Benson, a Dutchman, played and
supped with us, that pretends to sing well, and I expected great matters
but found nothing to be pleased with at all. So home and to bed, yet
troubled in my mind.