27th. Up, and all the morning very busy with multitude of clients, till
my head began to be overloaded. Towards noon I took coach and to the
Parliament house door, and there staid the rising of the House, and with
Sir G. Carteret and Mr. Coventry discoursed of some tarr that I have
been endeavouring to buy, for the market begins apace to rise upon us,
and I would be glad first to serve the King well, and next if I could I
find myself now begin to cast how to get a penny myself. Home by coach
with Alderman Backewell in his coach, whose opinion is that the Dutch
will not give over the business without putting us to some trouble to
set out a fleete; and then, if they see we go on well, will seek to
salve up the matter. Upon the ‘Change busy. Thence home to dinner, and
thence to the office till my head was ready to burst with business, and
so with my wife by coach, I sent her to my Lady Sandwich and myself to
my cozen Roger Pepys’s chamber, and there he did advise me about our
Exchequer business, and also about my brother John, he is put by my
father upon interceding for him, but I will not yet seem the least to
pardon him nor can I in my heart. However, he and I did talk how to get
him a mandamus for a fellowship, which I will endeavour. Thence to my
Lady’s, and in my way met Mr. Sanchy, of Cambridge, whom I have not met
a great while. He seems a simple fellow, and tells me their master, Dr.
Rainbow, is newly made Bishop of Carlisle. To my Lady’s, and she not
being well did not see her, but straight home with my wife, and late to
my office, concluding in the business of Wood’s masts, which I have
now done and I believe taken more pains in it than ever any Principall
officer in this world ever did in any thing to no profit to this day.
So, weary, sleepy, and hungry, home and to bed. This day the Houses
attended the King, and delivered their votes to him: upon the business
of the Dutch; and he thanks them, and promises an answer in writing.