2nd. Up and to the office, where we sat all the morning, and then to
the ‘Change, where after some stay by coach with Sir J. Minnes and Mr.
Coventry to St. James’s, and there dined with Mr. Coventry very finely,
and so over the Parke to White Hall to a Committee of Tangier about
providing provisions, money, and men for Tangier. At it all the
afternoon, but it is strange to see how poorly and brokenly things are
done of the greatest consequence, and how soon the memory of this great
man is gone, or, at least, out of mind by the thoughts of who goes next,
which is not yet knowne. My Lord of Oxford, Muskerry, and several others
are discoursed of. It seems my Lord Tiviott’s design was to go a mile
and half out of the towne, to cut down a wood in which the enemy did use
to lie in ambush. He had sent several spyes; but all brought word that
the way was clear, and so might be for any body’s discovery of an enemy
before you are upon them. There they were all snapt, he and all his
officers, and about 200 men, as they say; there being left now in the
garrison but four captains. This happened the 3d of May last, being not
before that day twelvemonth of his entering into his government there:
but at his going out in the morning he said to some of his officers,
“Gentlemen, let us look to ourselves, for it was this day three years
that so many brave Englishmen were knocked on the head by the Moores,
when Fines made his sally out.” Here till almost night, and then home
with Sir J. Minnes by coach, and so to my office a while, and home to
supper and bed, being now in constant pain in my back, but whether it be
only wind or what it is the Lord knows, but I fear the worst.