16th. Up, and by water to Deptford, thinking to have met ‘la femme de’
Bagwell, but failed, and having done some business at the yard, I back
again, it being a fine fresh morning to walk. Back again, Mr. Wayth
walking with me to Half-Way House talking about Mr. Castle’s fine knees
lately delivered in. In which I am well informed that they are not as
they should be to make them knees, and I hope shall make good use of it
to the King’s service. Thence home, and having dressed myself, to the
‘Change, and thence home to dinner, and so abroad by coach with my wife,
and bought a looking glasse by the Old Exchange, which costs me L5 5s.
and 6s. for the hooks. A very fair glasse. So toward my cozen Scott’s,
but meeting my Lady Sandwich’s coach, my wife turned back to follow
them, thinking they might, as they did, go to visit her, and I ‘light
and to Mrs. Harman, and there staid and talked in her shop with her, and
much pleased I am with her. We talked about Anthony Joyce’s giving over
trade and that he intends to live in lodgings, which is a very mad,
foolish thing. She tells me she hears and believes it is because he,
being now begun to be called on offices, resolves not to take the new
oathe, he having formerly taken the Covenant or Engagement, but I think
he do very simply and will endeavour for his wife’s sake to advise him
therein. Thence to my cozen Scott’s, and there met my cozen Roger Pepys,
and Mrs. Turner, and The. and Joyce, and prated all the while, and so
with the “corps” to church and heard a very fine sermon of the Parson of
the parish, and so homeward with them in their coach, but finding it too
late to go home with me, I took another coach and so home, and after a
while at my office, home to supper and to bed.