22nd. Up, and down to the ships, which now are hindered from going down
to the fleete (to our great sorrow and shame) with their provisions, the
wind being against them. So to the Duke of Albemarle, and thence down by
water to Deptford, it being Trinity Monday, and so the day of choosing
the Master of Trinity House for the next yeare, where, to my great
content, I find that, contrary to the practice and design of Sir W.
Batten, to breake the rule and custom of the Company in choosing their
Masters by succession, he would have brought in Sir W. Rider or Sir W.
Pen, over the head of Hurleston (who is a knave too besides, I believe),
the younger brothers did all oppose it against the elder, and with great
heat did carry it for Hurleston, which I know will vex him to the heart.
Thence, the election being over, to church, where an idle sermon from
that conceited fellow, Dr. Britton, saving that his advice to unity, and
laying aside all envy and enmity among them was very apposite. Thence
walked to Redriffe, and so to the Trinity House, and a great dinner, as
is usual, and so to my office, where busy all the afternoon till late,
and then home to bed, being much troubled in mind for several things,
first, for the condition of the fleete for lacke of provisions, the
blame this office lies under and the shame that they deserve to have
brought upon them for the ships not being gone out of the River, and
then for my business of Tangier which is not settled, and lastly for
fear that I am not observed to have attended the office business of
late as much as I ought to do, though there has been nothing but my
attendance on Tangier that has occasioned my absence, and that of late
not much.