24th. Up betimes, and by agreement to the Globe taverne in Fleet Street
to Mr. Clerke, my sollicitor, about the business of my uncle’s accounts,
and we went with one Jefferys to one of the Barons (Spelman), and
there my accounts were declared and I sworn to the truth thereof to my
knowledge, and so I shall after a few formalities be cleared of all.
Thence to Povy’s, and there delivered him his letters of greatest import
to him that is possible, yet dropped by young Bland, just come from
Tangier, upon the road by Sittingburne, taken up and sent to Mr. Pett,
at Chatham. Thus everything done by Povy is done with a fatal folly and
neglect. Then to our discourse with him, Creed, Mr. Viner, myself and
Poyntz about the business of the Workehouse at Clerkenwell, and after
dinner went thither and saw all the works there, and did also consult
the Act concerning the business and other papers in order to our coming
in to undertake it with Povy, the management of the House, but I do not
think we can safely meddle with it, at least I, unless I had time to
look after it myself, but the thing is very ingenious and laudable.
Thence to my Lady Sandwich’s, where my wife all this day, having kept
Good Friday very strict with fasting. Here we supped, and talked very
merry. My Lady alone with me, very earnest about Sir G. Carteret’s son,
with whom I perceive they do desire my Lady Jemimah may be matched.
Thence home and to my office, and then to bed.