September 1st. Up, and to visit my Lady Pen and her daughter at the
Ropeyarde where I did breakfast with them and sat chatting a good while.
Then to my lodging at Mr. Shelden’s, where I met Captain Cocke and eat
a little bit of dinner, and with him to Greenwich by water, having good
discourse with him by the way. After being at Greenwich a little while,
I to London, to my house, there put many more things in order for my
totall remove, sending away my girle Susan and other goods down to
Woolwich, and I by water to the Duke of Albemarle, and thence home late
by water. At the Duke of Albemarle’s I overheard some examinations of
the late plot that is discoursed of and a great deale of do there is
about it. Among other discourses, I heard read, in the presence of the
Duke, an examination and discourse of Sir Philip Howard’s, with one of
the plotting party. In many places these words being, “Then,” said Sir
P. Howard, “if you so come over to the King, and be faithfull to him,
you shall be maintained, and be set up with a horse and armes,” and I
know not what. And then said such a one, “Yes, I will be true to the
King.” “But, damn me,” said Sir Philip, “will you so and so?” And thus I
believe twelve times Sir P. Howard answered him a “damn me,” which was
a fine way of rhetorique to persuade a Quaker or Anabaptist from his
persuasion. And this was read in the hearing of Sir P. Howard, before
the Duke and twenty more officers, and they make sport of it, only
without any reproach, or he being anything ashamed of it!

     [This republican plot was described by the Lord Chancellor in a
     speech delivered on October 9th, when parliament met at Oxford.]

But it ended, I remember, at last, “But such a one (the plotter) did at
last bid them remember that he had not told them what King he would be
faithfull to.”