14th. Up, and to the office, where mighty busy, especially with Mr.
Gawden, with whom I shall, I think, have much to do, and by and by comes
the Lieutenant of the Tower by my invitation yesterday, but I had got
nothing for him, it is to discourse about the Cole shipps. So he went
away to Sheriffe Hooker’s, and I staid at the office till he sent for me
at noon to dinner, I very hungry. When I come to the Sheriffe’s he was
not there, nor in many other places, nor could find him at all, so was
forced to come to the office and get a bit of meat from the taverne, and
so to my business. By and by comes the Lieutenant and reproaches me with
my not treating him as I ought, but all in jest, he it seemed dined
with Mr. Adrian May. Very late writing letters at the office, and much
satisfied to hear from Captain Cocke that he had got possession of some
of his goods to his own house, and expected to have all to-night. The
towne, I hear, is full of talke that there are great differences in the
fleete among the great Commanders, and that Mings at Oxford did impeach
my Lord of something, I think about these goods, but this is but talke.
But my heart and head to-night is full of the Victualling business,
being overjoyed and proud at my success in my proposal about it, it
being read before the King, Duke, and the Caball with complete applause
and satisfaction. This Sir G. Carteret and Sir W. Coventry both writ me,
besides Sir W. Coventry’s letter to the Duke of Albemarle, which I read
yesterday, and I hope to find my profit in it also. So late home to bed.