28th. Sir J. Minnes carried me and my wife to White Hall, and thence his
coach along with my wife where she would. There after attending the Duke
to discourse of the navy. We did not kiss his hand, nor do I think, for
all their pretence, of going away to-morrow. Yet I believe they will not
go for good and all, but I did take my leave of Sir William Coventry,
who, it seems, was knighted and sworn a Privy-Counsellor two days since;
who with his old kindness treated me, and I believe I shall ever find
[him] a noble friend. Thence by water to Blackfriars, and so to Paul’s
churchyard and bespoke severall books, and so home and there dined,
my man William giving me a lobster sent him by my old maid Sarah. This
morning I met with Sir G. Carteret, who tells me how all things proceed
between my Lord Sandwich and himself to full content, and both sides
depend upon having the match finished presently, and professed great
kindnesse to me, and said that now we were something akin. I am
mightily, both with respect to myself and much more of my Lord’s family,
glad of this alliance. After dinner to White Hall, thinking to
speak with my Lord Ashly, but failed, and I whiled away some time in
Westminster Hall against he did come, in my way observing several plague
houses in King’s Street and [near] the Palace. Here I hear Mrs. Martin
is gone out of town, and that her husband, an idle fellow, is since come
out of France, as he pretends, but I believe not that he hath been. I
was fearful of going to any house, but I did to the Swan, and thence to
White Hall, giving the waterman a shilling, because a young fellow and
belonging to the Plymouth. Thence by coach to several places, and so
home, and all the evening with Sir J. Minnes and all the women of the
house (excepting my Lady Batten) late in the garden chatting. At 12
o’clock home to supper and to bed. My Lord Sandwich is gone towards the
sea to-day, it being a sudden resolution, I having taken no leave of
him.