30th. Up betimes and to my business of settling my house and papers, and
then abroad and met with Hadley, our clerke, who, upon my asking how the
plague goes, he told me it encreases much, and much in our parish; for,
says he, there died nine this week, though I have returned but six:
which is a very ill practice, and makes me think it is so in other
places; and therefore the plague much greater than people take it to be.
Thence, as I intended, to Sir R. Viner’s, and there found not Mr. Lewes
ready for me, so I went forth and walked towards Moorefields to see (God
forbid my presumption!) whether I could see any dead corps going to the
grave; but, as God would have it, did not. But, Lord! how every body’s
looks, and discourse in the street is of death, and nothing else, and
few people going up and down, that the towne is like a place distressed
and forsaken. After one turne there back to Viner’s, and there found my
business ready for me, and evened all reckonings with them to this
day to my great content. So home, and all day till very late at night
setting my Tangier and private accounts in order, which I did in both,
and in the latter to my great joy do find myself yet in the much best
condition that ever I was in, finding myself worth L2180 and odd,
besides plate and goods, which I value at L250 more, which is a very
great blessing to me. The Lord make me thankfull! and of this at this
day above L1800 in cash in my house, which speaks but little out of my
hands in desperate condition, but this is very troublesome to have in my
house at this time. So late to bed, well pleased with my accounts, but
weary of being so long at them.