7th. Up, and to Sir G. Carteret, and with him, he being very passionate
to be gone, without staying a minute for breakfast, to the Duke of
Albemarle’s and I with him by water and with Fen: but, among other
things, Lord! to see how he wondered to see the river so empty of boats,
nobody working at the Custome-house keys; and how fearful he is, and
vexed that his man, holding a wine-glasse in his hand for him to drinke
out of, did cover his hands, it being a cold, windy, rainy morning,
under the waterman’s coate, though he brought the waterman from six or
seven miles up the river, too. Nay, he carried this glasse with him for
his man to let him drink out of at the Duke of Albemarle’s, where he
intended to dine, though this he did to prevent sluttery, for, for the
same reason he carried a napkin with him to Captain Cocke’s, making
him believe that he should eat with foule linnen. Here he with the Duke
walked a good while in the Parke, and I with Fen, but cannot gather that
he intends to stay with us, nor thinks any thing at all of ever paying
one farthing of money more to us here, let what will come of it. Thence
in, and Sir W. Batten comes in by and by, and so staying till noon,
and there being a great deal of company there, Sir W. Batten and I took
leave of the Duke and Sir G. Carteret, there being no good to be done
more for money, and so over the River and by coach to Greenwich, where
at Boreman’s we dined, it being late. Thence my head being full of
business and mind out of order for thinking of the effects which will
arise from the want of money, I made an end of my letters by eight
o’clock, and so to my lodging and there spent the evening till midnight
talking with Mrs. Penington, who is a very discreet, understanding lady
and very pretty discourse we had and great variety, and she tells me
with great sorrow her bitch is dead this morning, died in her bed. So
broke up and to bed.