22nd. Up, and by water to the Duke of Albemarle, and there did some
little business, but most to shew myself, and mightily I am yet in his
and Lord Craven’s books, and thence to the Swan and there drank and so
down to the bridge, and so to the ‘Change, where spoke with many people,
and about a great deale of business, which kept me late. I heard this
day that Mr. Harrington is not dead of the plague, as we believed, at
which I was very glad, but most of all, to hear that the plague is come
very low; that is, the whole under 1,000, and the plague 600 and odd:
and great hopes of a further decrease, because of this day’s being a
very exceeding hard frost, and continues freezing. This day the first of
the Oxford Gazettes come out, which is very pretty, full of newes, and
no folly in it. Wrote by Williamson. Fear that our Hambro’ ships at last
cannot go, because of the great frost, which we believe it is there,
nor are our ships cleared at the Pillow [Pillau], which will keepe them
there too all this winter, I fear. From the ‘Change, which is pretty
full again, I to my office and there took some things, and so by water
to my lodging at Greenwich and dined, and then to the office awhile and
at night home to my lodgings, and took T. Willson and T. Hater with me,
and there spent the evening till midnight discoursing and settling of
our Victualling business, that thereby I might draw up instructions for
the Surveyours and that we might be doing something to earne our money.
This done I late to bed. Among other things it pleased me to have it
demonstrated, that a Purser without professed cheating is a professed
loser, twice as much as he gets.