5th. In the morning up, and my wife showed me several things of her
doing, especially one fine woman’s Persian head mighty finely done,
beyond what I could expect of her; and so away by water, having ordered
in the yarde six or eight bargemen to be whipped, who had last night
stolen some of the King’s cordage from out of the yarde. I to Deptford,
and there by agreement met with my Lord Bruncker, and there we kept our
office, he and I, and did what there was to do, and at noon parted
to meet at the office next week. Sir W. Warren and I thence did walk
through the rain to Half-Way House, and there I eat a piece of boiled
beef and he and I talked over several businesses, among others our
design upon the mast docke, which I hope to compass and get 2 or L300
by. Thence to Redriffe, where we parted, and I home, where busy all the
afternoon. Stepped to Colvill’s to set right a business of money, where
he told me that for certain De Ruyter is come home, with all his fleete,
which is very ill newes, considering the charge we have been at in
keeping a fleete to the northward so long, besides the great expectation
of snapping him, wherein my Lord Sandwich will I doubt suffer some
dishonour. I am told also of a great ryott upon Thursday last in
Cheapside; Colonell Danvers, a delinquent, having been taken, and in his
way to the Tower was rescued from the captain of the guard, and carried
away; only one of the rescuers being taken. I am told also that the Duke
of Buckingham is dead, but I know not of a certainty. So home and very
late at letters, and then home to supper and to bed.