30th. Up and to White Hall, to the Duke of Albemarle, who I find at
Secretary Bennet’s, there being now no other great Statesman, I think,
but my Lord Chancellor, in towne. I received several commands from
them; among others, to provide some bread and cheese for the garrison at
Guernsey, which they promised to see me paid for. So to the ‘Change, and
home to dinner. In the afternoon I down to Woolwich and after me my wife
and Mercer, whom I led to Mr. Sheldon’s to see his house, and I find
it a very pretty place for them to be at. So I back again, walking both
forward and backward, and left my wife to come by water. I straight to
White Hall, late, to Secretary Bennet’s to give him an account of the
business I received from him to-day, and there staid weary and sleepy
till past 12 at night. Then writ my mind to him, and so back by water
and in the dark and against tide shot the bridge, groping with their
pole for the way, which troubled me before I got through. So home, about
one or two o’clock in the morning, my family at a great losse what was
become of me. To supper, and to bed. Thus this book of two years ends.
Myself and family in good health, consisting of myself and wife, Mercer,
her woman, Mary, Alice, and Susan our maids, and Tom my boy. In a sickly
time of the plague growing on. Having upon my hands the troublesome care
of the Treasury of Tangier, with great sums drawn upon me, and nothing
to pay them with: also the business of the office great. Consideration
of removing my wife to Woolwich; she lately busy in learning to paint,
with great pleasure and successe. All other things well; especially a
new interest I am making, by a match in hand between the eldest son of
Sir G. Carteret, and my Lady Jemimah Montage. The Duke of Yorke gone
down to the fleete, but all suppose not with intent to stay there, as it
is not fit, all men conceive, he should.