February 1st. Lay long in bed, which made me, going by coach to St.
James’s by appointment to have attended the Duke of Yorke and my Lord
Bellasses, lose the hopes of my getting something by the hire of a ship
to carry men to Tangier. But, however, according to the order of the
Duke this morning, I did go to the ‘Change, and there after great pains
did light of a business with Mr. Gifford and Hubland [Houblon] for
bringing me as much as I hoped for, which I have at large expressed in
my stating the case of the “King’s Fisher,” which is the ship that I
have hired, and got the Duke of Yorke’s agreement this afternoon after
much pains and not eating a bit of bread till about 4 o’clock. Going
home I put in to an ordinary by Temple Barr and there with my boy Tom
eat a pullet, and thence home to the office, being still angry with my
wife for yesterday’s foolery. After a good while at the office, I with
the boy to the Sun behind the Exchange, by agreement with Mr. Young the
flag-maker, and there was met by Mr. Hill, Andrews, and Mr. Hubland,
a pretty serious man. Here two very pretty savoury dishes and good
discourse. After supper a song, or three or four (I having to that
purpose carried Lawes’s book), and staying here till 12 o’clock got
the watch to light me home, and in a continued discontent to bed. After
being in bed, my people come and say there is a great stinke of burning,
but no smoake. We called up Sir J. Minnes’s and Sir W. Batten’s people,
and Griffin, and the people at the madhouse, but nothing could be found
to give occasion to it. At this trouble we were till past three o’clock,
and then the stinke ceasing, I to sleep, and my people to bed, and lay
very long in the morning.