4th. They sayled from midnight, and come to Greenwich about 5 o’clock
in the morning. I however lay till about 7 or 8, and so to my office, my
head a little akeing, partly for want of natural rest, partly having so
much business to do to-day, and partly from the newes I hear that one
of the little boys at my lodging is not well; and they suspect, by their
sending for plaister and fume, that it may be the plague; so I sent Mr.
Hater and W. Hewer to speake with the mother; but they returned to me,
satisfied that there is no hurt nor danger, but the boy is well, and
offers to be searched, however, I was resolved myself to abstain coming
thither for a while. Sir W. Batten and myself at the office all the
morning. At noon with him to dinner at Boreman’s, where Mr. Seymour with
us, who is a most conceited fellow and not over much in him. Here Sir W.
Batten told us (which I had not heard before) that the last sitting day
his cloake was taken from Mingo he going home to dinner, and that he was
beaten by the seamen and swears he will come to Greenwich, but no more
to the office till he can sit safe. After dinner I to the office and
there late, and much troubled to have 100 seamen all the afternoon
there, swearing below and cursing us, and breaking the glasse windows,
and swear they will pull the house down on Tuesday next. I sent word of
this to Court, but nothing will helpe it but money and a rope. Late at
night to Mr. Glanville’s there to lie for a night or two, and to bed.