28th: At the office all the morning. At noon dined at home. After dinner
my wife and I to my Lady batten’s, it being the first time my wife hath
been there, I think, these two years, but I had a mind in part to take
away the strangenesse, and so we did, and all very quiett and kind. Come
home, I to the taking my wife’s kitchen accounts at the latter end of
the month, and there find 7s. wanting, which did occasion a very high
falling out between us, I indeed too angrily insisting upon so poor a
thing, and did give her very provoking high words, calling her beggar,
and reproaching her friends, which she took very stomachfully and
reproached me justly with mine; and I confess, being myself, I cannot
see what she could have done less. I find she is very cunning, and when
she least shews it hath her wit at work; but it is an ill one, though I
think not so bad but with good usage I might well bear with it, and the
truth is I do find that my being over-solicitous and jealous and froward
and ready to reproach her do make her worse. However, I find that now
and then a little difference do no hurte, but too much of it will make
her know her force too much. We parted after many high words very angry,
and I to my office to my month’s accounts, and find myself worth L1270,
for which the Lord God be praised! So at almost 2 o’clock in the
morning I home to supper and to bed, and so ends this month, with great
expectation of the Hollanders coming forth, who are, it seems, very high
and rather more ready than we. God give a good issue to it!