4th. Several people to me about business, among others Captain Taylor,
intended Storekeeper for Harwich, whom I did give some assistance in his
dispatch by lending him money. So out and by water to London and to
the ‘Change, and up and down about several businesses, and after the
observing (God forgive me!) one or two of my neighbour Jason’s women
come to towne, which did please me very well, home to my house at the
office, where my wife had got a dinner for me: and it was a joyfull
thing for us to meet here, for which God be praised! Here was her
brother come to see her, and speake with me about business. It seems my
recommending of him hath not only obtained his presently being admitted
into the Duke of Albemarle’s guards, and present pay, but also by the
Duke’s and Sir Philip Howard’s direction, to be put as a right-hand man,
and other marks of special respect, at which I am very glad, partly
for him, and partly to see that I am reckoned something in my
recommendations, but wish he may carry himself that I may receive no
disgrace by him. So to the ‘Change. Up and down again in the evening
about business and to meet Captain Cocke, who waited for Mrs. Pierce
(with whom he is mightily stricken), to receive and hide for her her
rich goods she saved the other day from seizure. Upon the ‘Change to-day
Colvill tells me, from Oxford, that the King in person hath justified my
Lord Sandwich to the highest degree; and is right in his favour to the
uttermost. So late by water home, taking a barrel of oysters with me,
and at Greenwich went and sat with Madam Penington .... and made her
undress her head and sit dishevilled all night sporting till two in the
morning, and so away to my lodging and so to bed. Over-fasting all the
morning hath filled me mightily with wind, and nothing else hath done
it, that I fear a fit of the cholique.