17th. My wife come to bed about one in the morning. I up and abroad
about Tangier business, then back to the office, where we sat, and at
noon home to dinner, and then abroad to Mr. Povy’s, after I and Mr.
Andrews had been with Mr. Ball and one Major Strange, who looks after
the getting of money for tallys and is helping Mr. Andrews. I had much
discourse with Ball, and it may be he may prove a necessary man for our
turns. With Mr. Povy I spoke very freely my indifference as to my place
of Treasurer, being so much troubled in it, which he took with much
seeming trouble, that I should think of letting go so lightly the place,
but if the place can’t be held I will. So hearing that my Lord Treasurer
was gone out of town with his family because of the sicknesse, I
returned home without staying there, and at the office find Sir W.
Pen come home, who looks very well; and I am gladder to see him than
otherwise I should be because of my hearing so well of him for his
serviceablenesse in this late great action. To the office late, and then
home to bed. It struck me very deep this afternoon going with a hackney
coach from my Lord Treasurer’s down Holborne, the coachman I found to
drive easily and easily, at last stood still, and come down hardly able
to stand, and told me that he was suddenly struck very sicke, and almost
blind, he could not see; so I ‘light and went into another coach, with
a sad heart for the poor man and trouble for myself, lest he should have
been struck with the plague, being at the end of the towne that I took
him up; but God have mercy upon us all! Sir John Lawson, I hear, is
worse than yesterday: the King went to see him to-day most kindly. It
seems his wound is not very bad; but he hath a fever, a thrush, and a
hickup, all three together, which are, it seems, very bad symptoms.