4th. Up and to my office, where Mr. Andrews comes, and reckoning with
him I get L64 of him. By and by comes Mr. Gawden, and reckoning with him
he gives me L60 in his account, which is a great mercy to me. Then both
of them met and discoursed the business of the first man’s resigning and
the other’s taking up the business of the victualling of Tangier, and
I do not think that I shall be able to do as well under Mr. Gawden as
under these men, or within a little as to profit and less care upon me.
Thence to the King’s Head to dinner, where we three and Creed and my
wife and her woman dined mighty merry and sat long talking, and so in
the afternoon broke up, and I led my wife to our lodging again, and I to
the office where did much business, and so to my wife. This night comes
Sir George Smith to see me at the office, and tells me how the plague is
decreased this week 740, for which God be praised! but that it encreases
at our end of the town still, and says how all the towne is full of
Captain Cocke’s being in some ill condition about prize-goods, his goods
being taken from him, and I know not what. But though this troubles me
to have it said, and that it is likely to be a business in Parliament,
yet I am not much concerned at it, because yet I believe this newes is
all false, for he would have wrote to me sure about it. Being come to my
wife, at our lodging, I did go to bed, and left my wife with her people
to laugh and dance and I to sleep.