April 1st. All the morning very busy at the office preparing a last
half-year’s account for my Lord Treasurer. At noon eat a bit and stepped
to Sir Ph. Warwicke, by coach to my Lord Treasurer’s, and after some
private conference and examining of my papers with him I did return into
the City and to Sir G. Carteret, whom I found with the Commissioners of
Prizes dining at Captain Cocke’s, in Broad Streete, very merry. Among
other tricks, there did come a blind fiddler to the doore, and Sir G.
Carteret did go to the doore and lead the blind fiddler by the hand in.
Thence with Sir G. Carteret to my Lord Treasurer, and by and by come Sir
W. Batten and Sir J. Minnes, and anon we come to my Lord, and there did
lay open the expence for the six months past, and an estimate of the
seven months to come, to November next: the first arising to above
L500,000, and the latter will, as we judge, come to above L1,000,000.
But to see how my Lord Treasurer did bless himself, crying he could do
no more than he could, nor give more money than he had, if the occasion
and expence were never so great, which is but a sad story. And then
to hear how like a passionate and ignorant asse Sir G. Carteret did
harangue upon the abuse of Tickets did make me mad almost and yet was
fain to hold my tongue. Thence home, vexed mightily to see how simply
our greatest ministers do content themselves to understand and do
things, while the King’s service in the meantime lies a-bleeding. At my
office late writing letters till ready to drop down asleep with my late
sitting up of late, and running up and down a-days. So to bed.