8th (Lord’s day). Up and, after being trimmed, to the office, whither I
upon a letter from the Duke of Albemarle to me, to order as many ships
forth out of the river as I can presently, to joyne to meet the Dutch;
having ordered all the Captains of the ships in the river to come to me,
I did some business with them, and so to Captain Cocke’s to dinner, he
being in the country. But here his brother Solomon was, and, for guests,
myself, Sir G. Smith, and a very fine lady, one Mrs. Penington, and
two more gentlemen. But, both [before] and after dinner, most witty
discourse with this lady, who is a very fine witty lady, one of the best
I ever heard speake, and indifferent handsome. There after dinner an
houre or two, and so to the office, where ended my business with the
Captains; and I think of twenty-two ships we shall make shift to get out
seven. (God helpe us! men being sick, or provisions lacking.) And so to
write letters to Sir Ph. Warwicke, Sir W. Coventry, and Sir G. Carteret
to Court about the last six months’ accounts, and sent away by
an express to-night. This day I hear the Pope is dead;--[a false
report]--and one said, that the newes is, that the King of France is
stabbed, but that the former is very true, which will do great things
sure, as to the troubling of that part of the world, the King of Spayne

     [Philip IV., King of Spain, who succeeded to the throne in 1621,
     died in 1665.  He was succeeded by his son Charles II.]

being so lately dead. And one thing more, Sir Martin Noell’s lady is
dead with griefe for the death of her husband and nothing else, as they
say, in the world; but it seems nobody can make anything of his estate,
whether he be dead worth anything or no, he having dealt in so many
things, publique and private, as nobody can understand whereabouts his
estate is, which is the fate of these great dealers at everything. So
after my business being done I home to my lodging and to bed,