11th. Up, and all day long finishing and writing over my will twice, for
my father and my wife, only in the morning a pleasant rencontre happened
in having a young married woman brought me by her father, old Delkes,
that carries pins always in his mouth, to get her husband off that he
should not go to sea, ‘une contre pouvait avoir done any cose cum else,
but I did nothing, si ni baisser her’. After they were gone my mind run
upon having them called back again, and I sent a messenger to Blackwall,
but he failed. So I lost my expectation. I to the Exchequer, about
striking new tallys, and I find the Exchequer, by proclamation, removing
to Nonesuch.--[Nonsuch Palace, near Epsom, where the Exchequer money was
kept during the time of the plague.]--Back again and at my papers, and
putting up my books into chests, and settling my house and all things in
the best and speediest order I can, lest it should please God to take me
away, or force me to leave my house. Late up at it, and weary and full
of wind, finding perfectly that so long as I keepe myself in company at
meals and do there eat lustily (which I cannot do alone, having no love
to eating, but my mind runs upon my business), I am as well as can be,
but when I come to be alone, I do not eat in time, nor enough, nor with
any good heart, and I immediately begin to be full of wind, which brings
my pain, till I come to fill my belly a-days again, then am presently
well.