March 1st. Up, and this day being the day than: by a promise, a great
while ago, made to my wife, I was to give her L20 to lay out in clothes
against Easter, she did, notwithstanding last night’s falling out, come
to peace with me and I with her, but did boggle mightily at the parting
with my money, but at last did give it her, and then she abroad to buy
her things, and I to my office, where busy all the morning. At noon I to
dinner at Trinity House, and thence to Gresham College, where Mr. Hooke
read a second very curious lecture about the late Comett; among other
things proving very probably that this is the very same Comett that
appeared before in the year 1618, and that in such a time probably
it will appear again, which is a very new opinion; but all will be in
print. Then to the meeting, where Sir G. Carteret’s two sons, his owne,
and Sir N. Slaning, were admitted of the society: and this day I did pay
my admission money, 40s. to the society. Here was very fine discourses
and experiments, but I do lacke philosophy enough to understand them,
and so cannot remember them. Among others, a very particular account of
the making of the several sorts of bread in France, which is accounted
the best place for bread in the world. So home, where very busy getting
an answer to some question of Sir Philip Warwicke touching the expense
of the navy, and that being done I by coach at 8 at night with my wife
and Mercer to Sir Philip’s and discoursed with him (leaving them in the
coach), and then back with them home and to supper and to bed.