7th. Up, and with great pleasure looking over my wife’s pictures, and
then to see my Lady Pen, whom I have not seen since her coming hither,
and after being a little merry with her, she went forth and I staid
there talking with Mrs. Pegg and looking over her pictures, and
commended them; but, Lord! so far short of my wife’s, as no comparison.
Thence to my wife, and there spent, talking, till noon, when by
appointment Mr. Andrews come out of the country to speake with me about
their Tangier business, and so having done with him and dined, I home by
water, where by appointment I met Dr. Twisden, Mr. Povy, Mr. Lawson, and
Stockdale about settling their business of money; but such confusion
I never met with, nor could anything be agreed on, but parted like a
company of fools, I vexed to lose so much time and pains to no purpose.
They gone, comes Rayner, the boatmaker, about some business, and brings
a piece of plate with him, which I refused to take of him, thinking
indeed that the poor man hath no reason nor encouragement from our
dealings with him to give any of us any presents. He gone, there comes
Luellin, about Mr. Deering’s business of planke, to have the contract
perfected, and offers me twenty pieces in gold, as Deering had done some
time since himself, but I both then and now refused it, resolving not
to be bribed to dispatch business, but will have it done however out of
hand forthwith. So he gone, I to supper and to bed.