13th. Up betimes and walked to my Lord Bellasses’s lodgings in
Lincolne’s Inne Fieldes, and there he received and discoursed with me in
the most respectfull manner that could be, telling me what a character
of my judgment, and care, and love to Tangier he had received of me,
that he desired my advice and my constant correspondence, which he much
valued, and in my courtship, in which, though I understand his designe
very well, and that it is only a piece of courtship, yet it is a comfort
to me that I am become so considerable as to have him need to say that
to me, which, if I did not do something in the world, would never have
been. Here well satisfied I to Sir Ph. Warwicke, and there did some
business with him; thence to Jervas’s and there spent a little idle
time with him, his wife, Jane, and a sweetheart of hers. So to the Hall
awhile and thence to the Exchange, where yesterday’s newes confirmed,
though in a little different manner; but a couple of ships in the
Straights we have lost, and the Dutch have been in Margaret [Margate]
Road. Thence home to dinner and so abroad and alone to the King’s house,
to a play, “The Traytor,” where, unfortunately, I met with Sir W. Pen,
so that I must be forced to confess it to my wife, which troubles me.
Thence walked home, being ill-satisfied with the present actings of the
House, and prefer the other House before this infinitely. To my Lady
Batten’s, where I find Pegg Pen, the first time that ever I saw her to
wear spots. Here very merry, Sir W. Batten being looked for to-night,
but is not yet come from Harwich. So home to supper and to bed.