25th. Found ourselves come to the fleete, and so aboard the Prince; and
there, after a good while in discourse, we did agree a bargain of
L5,000 with Sir Roger Cuttance for my Lord Sandwich for silk, cinnamon,
nutmeggs, and indigo. And I was near signing to an undertaking for the
payment of the whole sum; but I did by chance escape it; having since,
upon second thoughts, great cause to be glad of it, reflecting upon the
craft and not good condition, it may be, of Captain Cocke. I could get
no trifles for my wife. Anon to dinner and thence in great haste to
make a short visit to Sir W. Pen, where I found them and his lady and
daughter and many commanders at dinner. Among others Sir G. Askue, of
whom whatever the matter is, the world is silent altogether. But a very
pretty dinner there was, and after dinner Sir W. Pen made a bargain with
Cocke for ten bales of silke, at 16s. per lb., which, as Cocke says,
will be a good pennyworth, and so away to the Prince and presently comes
my Lord on board from Greenwich, with whom, after a little discourse
about his trusting of Cocke, we parted and to our yacht; but it being
calme, we to make haste, took our wherry toward Chatham; but, it growing
darke, we were put to great difficultys, our simple, yet confident
waterman, not knowing a step of the way; and we found ourselves to go
backward and forward, which, in the darke night and a wild place, did
vex us mightily. At last we got a fisher boy by chance, and took him
into the boat, and being an odde kind of boy, did vex us too; for he
would not answer us aloud when we spoke to him, but did carry us safe
thither, though with a mistake or two; but I wonder they were not more.
In our way I was [surprised] and so were we all, at the strange nature
of the sea-water in a darke night, that it seemed like fire upon every
stroke of the oare, and, they say, is a sign of winde. We went to the
Crowne Inne, at Rochester, and there to supper, and made ourselves merry
with our poor fisher-boy, who told us he had not been in a bed in the
whole seven years since he came to â€˜prentice, and hath two or three more
years to serve. After eating something, we in our clothes to bed.