29th. To sleep till 5 o’clock, when it is now very dark, and then rose,
being called up by order by Mr. Marlow, and so up and dressed myself,
and by and by comes Mr. Lashmore on horseback, and I had my horse I
borrowed of Mr. Gillthropp, Sir W. Batten’s clerke, brought to me, and
so we set out and rode hard and was at Nonsuch by about eight o’clock, a
very fine journey and a fine day. There I come just about chappell time
and so I went to chappell with them and thence to the several offices
about my tallys, which I find done, but strung for sums not to my
purpose, and so was forced to get them to promise me to have them cut
into other sums. But, Lord! what ado I had to persuade the dull fellows
to it, especially Mr. Warder, Master of the Pells, and yet without any
manner of reason for their scruple. But at last I did, and so left my
tallies there against another day, and so walked to Yowell, and there
did spend a peece upon them, having a whole house full, and much mirth
by a sister of the mistresse of the house, an old mayde lately married
to a lieutenant of a company that quarters there, and much pleasant
discourse we had and, dinner being done, we to horse again and come to
Greenwich before night, and so to my lodging, and there being a little
weary sat down and fell to order some of my pocket papers, and then
comes Captain Cocke, and after a great deal of discourse with him
seriously upon the disorders of our state through lack of men to mind
the public business and to understand it, we broke up, sitting up
talking very late. We spoke a little of my late business propounded of
taking profit for my money laid out for these goods, but he finds I rise
in my demand, he offering me still L500 certain. So we did give it
over, and I to bed. I hear for certain this night upon the road that
Sir Martin Noell is this day dead of the plague in London, where he hath
lain sick of it these eight days.