31st. Up and with Sir W. Batten to Westminster, where to speak at the
House with my Lord Bellasses, and am cruelly vexed to see myself put
upon businesses so uncertainly about getting ships for Tangier being
ordered, a servile thing, almost every day. So to the ‘Change, back by
coach with Sir W. Batten, and thence to the Crowne, a taverne hard by,
with Sir W. Rider and Cutler, where we alone, a very good dinner. Thence
home to the office, and there all the afternoon late. The office being
up, my wife sent for me, and what was it but to tell me how Jane carries
herself, and I must put her away presently. But I did hear both sides
and find my wife much in fault, and the grounds of all the difference
is my wife’s fondness of Tom, to the being displeased with all the house
beside to defend the boy, which vexes me, but I will cure it. Many high
words between my wife and I, but the wench shall go, but I will take a
course with the boy, for I fear I have spoiled him already. Thence to
the office, to my accounts, and there at once to ease my mind I have
made myself debtor to Mr. Povy for the L117 5s. got with so much joy
the last month, but seeing that it is not like to be kept without some
trouble and question, I do even discharge my mind of it, and so if I
come now to refund it, as I fear I shall, I shall now be ne’er a whit
the poorer for it, though yet it is some trouble to me to be poorer by
such a sum than I thought myself a month since. But, however, a quiet
mind and to be sure of my owne is worth all. The Lord be praised for
what I have, which is this month come down to L1257. I staid up about my
accounts till almost two in the morning.