10th. Up betimes, and called upon early by my she-cozen Porter, the
turner’s wife, to tell me that her husband was carried to the Tower,
for buying of some of the King’s powder, and would have my helpe, but
I could give her none, not daring any more to appear in the business,
having too much trouble lately therein. By and by to the office, where
we sat all the morning; in great trouble to see the Bill this week rise
so high, to above 4,000 in all, and of them above 3,000 of the plague.
And an odd story of Alderman Bence’s stumbling at night over a dead
corps in the streete, and going home and telling his wife, she at the
fright, being with child, fell sicke and died of the plague. We sat
late, and then by invitation my Lord Brunker, Sir J. Minnes, Sir W.
Batten and I to Sir G. Smith’s to dinner, where very good company and
good cheer. Captain Cocke was there and Jacke Fenn, but to our great
wonder Alderman Bence, and tells us that not a word of all this is true,
and others said so too, but by his owne story his wife hath been ill,
and he fain to leave his house and comes not to her, which continuing a
trouble to me all the time I was there. Thence to the office and, after
writing letters, home, to draw-over anew my will, which I had bound
myself by oath to dispatch by to-morrow night; the town growing so
unhealthy, that a man cannot depend upon living two days to an end. So
having done something of it, I to bed.