18th. Up about 5 o’clock and dressed ourselves, and to sayle again down
to the Soveraigne at the buoy of the Nore, a noble ship, now rigged
and fitted and manned; we did not stay long, but to enquire after her
readinesse and thence to Sheernesse, where we walked up and down, laying
out the ground to be taken in for a yard to lay provisions for cleaning
and repairing of ships, and a most proper place it is for the purpose.
Thence with great pleasure up the Meadeway, our yacht contending with
Commissioner Pett’s, wherein he met us from Chatham, and he had the best
of it. Here I come by, but had not tide enough to stop at Quinbrough, a
with mighty pleasure spent the day in doing all and seeing these places,
which I had never done before. So to the Hill house at Chatham and there
dined, and after dinner spent some time discoursing of business. Among
others arguing with the Commissioner about his proposing the laying out
so much money upon Sheerenesse, unless it be to the slighting of Chatham
yarde, for it is much a better place than Chatham, which however the
King is not at present in purse to do, though it were to be wished he
were. Thence in Commissioner Pett’s coach (leaving them there). I late
in the darke to Gravesend, where great is the plague, and I troubled to
stay there so long for the tide. At 10 at night, having supped, I took
boat alone, and slept well all the way to the Tower docke about three
o’clock in the morning. So knocked up my people, and to bed.