16th. Up, and met at the office; Sir W. Batten with us, who come from
Portsmouth on Monday last, and hath not been with us to see or discourse
with us about any business till this day. At noon to dinner, Sir W.
Warren with me on boat, and thence I by water, it being a fearfull cold,
snowing day to Westminster to White Hall stairs and thence to Sir G.
Downing, to whom I brought the happy newes of my having contracted, as
we did this day with Sir W. Warren, for a shipâ€™s lading of Norway goods
here and another at Harwich to the value of above L3,000, which is the
first that hath been got upon the New Act, and he is overjoyed with it
and tells me he will do me all the right to Court about it in the world,
and I am glad I have it to write to Sir W. Coventry to-night. He would
fain have me come in L200 to lend upon the Act, but I desire to be
excused in doing that, it being to little purpose for us that relate to
the King to do it, for the sum gets the King no courtesy nor credit. So
I parted from him and walked to Westminster Hall, where Sir W. Warren,
who come along with me, staid for me, and there I did see Betty Howlet
come after the sicknesse to the Hall. Had not opportunity to salute her,
as I desired, but was glad to see her and a very pretty wench she
is. Thence back, landing at the Old Swan and taking boat again at
Billingsgate, and setting ashore we home and I to the office.... and
there wrote my letters, and so home to supper and to bed, it being a
great frost. Newes is come to-day of our Sounde fleete being come, but I
do not know what Sir W. Warren hath insured.