25th. Up, and to the office, where all the morning. At noon to the
‘Change; where just before I come, the Swede that had told the King and
the Duke so boldly this great lie of the Dutch flinging our men back
to back into the sea at Guinny, so particularly, and readily, and
confidently, was whipt round the ‘Change: he confessing it a lie, and
that he did it in hopes to get something. It is said the judges, upon
demand, did give it their opinion that the law would judge him to be
whipt, to lose his eares, or to have his nose slit but I do not hear
that anything more is to be done to him. They say he is delivered over
to the Dutch Embassador to do what he pleased with him. But the world
do think that there is some design on one side or other, either of the
Dutch or French, for it is not likely a fellow would invent such a lie
to get money whereas he might have hoped for a better reward by telling
something in behalf of us to please us. Thence to the Sun taverne, and
there dined with Sir W. Warren and Mr. Gifford, the merchant: and I hear
how Nich. Colborne, that lately lived and got a great estate there, is
gone to live like a prince in the country, and that this Wadlow, that
did the like at the Devil by St. Dunstane’s, did go into the country,
and there spent almost all he had got, and hath now choused this
Colborne out of his house, that he might come to his old trade again.
But, Lord! to see how full the house is, no room for any company almost
to come into it. Thence home to the office, where dispatched much
business; at night late home, and to clean myself with warm water; my
wife will have me, because she do herself, and so to bed.