7th. Up, and by water to the Exchequer, where I got my tallys finished
for the last quarter for Tangier, and having paid all my fees I to
the Swan, whither I sent for some oysters, and thither comes Mr.
Falconbridge and Spicer and many more clerks; and there we eat and
drank, and a great deal of their sorry discourse, and so parted, and
I by coach home, meeting Balty in the streete about Charing Crosse
walking, which I am glad to see and spoke to him about his mustering
business, I being now to give an account how the several muster-masters
have behaved themselves, and so home to dinner, where finding the cloth
laid and much crumpled but clean, I grew angry and flung the trenchers
about the room, and in a mighty heat I was: so a clean cloth was laid,
and my poor wife very patient, and so to dinner, and in comes Mrs.
Barbara Sheldon, now Mrs. Wood, and dined with us, she mighty fine, and
lives, I perceive, mighty happily, which I am glad [of] for her sake,
but hate her husband for a block-head in his choice. So away after
dinner, leaving my wife and her, and by water to the Strand, and so to
the King’s playhouse, where two acts were almost done when I come in;
and there I sat with my cloak about my face, and saw the remainder of
“The Mayd’s Tragedy;” a good play, and well acted, especially by the
younger Marshall, who is become a pretty good actor, and is the first
play I have seen in either of the houses since before the great plague,
they having acted now about fourteen days publickly. But I was in mighty
pain lest I should be seen by any body to be at a play. Soon as done I
home, and then to my office awhile, and then home and spent the night
evening my Tangier accounts, much to my satisfaction, and then to
supper, and mighty good friends with my poor wife, and so to bed.