27th. Up, and to my new closett, which pleases me mightily, and there
did a little business. Then to break open a window, to the leads’ side
in my old closett, which will enlighten the room mightily, and make
it mighty pleasant. So to the office, and then home about one thing or
other, about my new closet, for my mind is full of nothing but that. So
at noon to dinner, mightily pleased with my wife’s picture that she is
upon. Then to the office, and thither come and walked an hour with me
Sir G. Carteret, who tells me what is done about my Lord’s pardon, and
is not for letting the Duke of Yorke know any thing of it beforehand,
but to carry it as speedily and quietly as we can. He seems to be very
apprehensive that the Parliament will be troublesome and inquisitive
into faults, but seems not to value them as to himself. He gone, I
to the Victualling Office, there with Lewes’ and Willson setting the
business of the state of the fleete’s victualling even and plain, and
that being done, and other good discourse about it over, Mr. Willson
and I by water down the River for discourse only, about business of the
office, and then back, and I home, and after a little at my office home
to my new closet, and there did much business on my Tangier account and
my Journall for three days. So to supper and to bed. We are not sure
that the Dutch fleete is out. I have another memento from Sir W.
Coventry of the want of provisions in the fleete, which troubles me,
though there is no reason for it; but will have the good effect of
making me more wary. So, full of thoughts, to bed.