11th (Lord’s day). Up, and put on a new black cloth suit to an old coate
that I make to be in mourning at Court, where they are all, for the King
of Spayne.--[Philip IV., who died September 17th, 1665.]--To church
I, and at noon dined well, and then by water to White Hall, carrying a
captain of the Tower (who desired his freight thither); there I to the
Parke, and walked two or three turns of the Pell Mell with the company
about the King and Duke; the Duke speaking to me a good deal. There met
Lord Bruncker and Mr. Coventry, and discoursed about the Navy business;
and all of us much at a loss that we yet can hear nothing of Sir Jeremy
Smith’s fleete, that went away to the Streights the middle of December,
through all the storms that we have had since, that have driven back
three or four of them with their masts by the board. Yesterday come out
the King’s Declaration of War against the French, but with such mild
invitations of both them and the Dutch to come over hither with promise
of their protection, that every body wonders at it. Thence home with my
Lord Bruncker for discourse sake, and thence by hackney coach home, and
so my wife and I mighty pleasant discourse, supped and to bed. The great
wound I had Wednesday last in my thumb having with once dressing by Mrs.
Turner’s balsam been perfectly cured, whereas I did not hope to save
my nail, whatever else ill it did give me. My wife and I are much
thoughtfull now-a-days about Pall’s coming up in order to a husband.