1000 houses, on the isle of Schelling; the ships lay between that
     island and the Fly (i.e. Vlieland), the adjoining island.  This
     attack probably provoked that by the Dutch on Chatham.]

saying it was a great thing indeed, and of great profit to us in being
of great losse to the enemy, but that it was wholly a business of
chance, and no conduct employed in it. I find Sir W. Pen do hold up his
head at this time higher than ever he did in his life. I perceive he do
look after Sir J. Minnes’s place if he dies, and though I love him not
nor do desire to have him in, yet I do think [he] is the first man in
England for it. To the Exchequer, and there received my tallys, and paid
my fees in good order, and so home, and there find Mrs. Knipp and
my wife going to dinner. She tells me my song, of “Beauty Retire” is
mightily cried up, which I am not a little proud of; and do think I have
done “It is Decreed” better, but I have not finished it. My closett is
doing by upholsters, which I am pleased with, but fear my purple will be
too sad for that melancholy roome. After dinner and doing something at
the office, I with my wife, Knipp, and Mercer, by coach to Moorefields,
and there saw “Polichinello,” which pleases me mightily, and here I saw
our Mary, our last chamber-maid, who is gone from Mrs. Pierces it seems.
Thence carried Knipp home, calling at the Cocke alehouse at the doore
and drank, and so home, and there find Reeves, and so up to look upon
the stars, and do like my glasse very well, and did even with him for it
and a little perspective and the Lanthorne that shows tricks, altogether
costing me L9 5s. 0d. So to bed, he lying at our house.