12th. Up, and very busy to perform an oathe in finishing my Journall
this morning for 7 or 8 days past. Then to several people attending upon
business, among others Mr. Grant and the executors of Barlow for the
L25 due for the quarter before he died, which I scrupled to pay, being
obliged but to pay every half year. Then comes Mr. Caesar, my boy’s
lute-master, whom I have not seen since the plague before, but he hath
been in Westminster all this while very well; and tells me in the height
of it, how bold people there were, to go in sport to one another’s
burials; and in spite too, ill people would breathe in the faces (out
of their windows) of well people going by. Then to dinner before the
‘Change, and so to the ‘Change, and then to the taverne to talk with Sir
William Warren, and so by coach to several places, among others to my
Lord Treasurer’s, there to meet my Lord Sandwich, but missed, and met
him at [my] Lord Chancellor’s, and there talked with him about his
accounts, and then about Sir G. Carteret, and I find by him that Sir G.
Carteret has a worse game to play than my Lord Sandwich, for people are
jeering at him, and he cries out of the business of Sir W. Coventry, who
strikes at all and do all. Then to my bookseller’s, and then received
some books I have new bought, and here late choosing some more to new
bind, having resolved to give myself L10 in books, and so home to the
office and then home to supper, where Mr. Hill was and supped with us,
and good discourse; an excellent person he still appears to me. After
supper, and he gone, we to bed.