4th. Up, and mighty betimes, to [Sir] W. Coventry, to give him an
account of yesterday’s work, which do give him good content. He did then
tell me his speech lately to the House in his owne vindication about the
report of his selling of places, he having a small occasion offered him
by chance, which he did desire, and took, and did it to his content,
and, he says, to the House’s seeming to approve of it by their hum. He
confessed how long he had done it, and how he desired to have something
else; and, since then, he had taken nothing, and challenged all the
world. I was glad of this also. Thence up to the Duke of York, by
appointment, with fellow officers, to complaine, but to no purpose, of
want of money, and so away. I to Sir G. Carteret, to his lodging, and
here discoursed much of the want of money and our being designed for
destruction. How the King hath lost his power, by submitting himself to
this way of examining his accounts, and is become but as a private man.
He says the King is troubled at it, but they talk an entry shall be
made, that it is not to be brought into example; that the King must,
if they do not agree presently, make them a courageous speech, which he
says he may do, the City of London being now burned, and himself master
of an army, better than any prince before him, and so I believe. Thence
home, about noon, to dinner. After dinner the book binder come, and I
sent by him some more books to gild. I to the office all day, and spent
most of it with Sir W. Warren, whom I have had no discourse with a great
while, and when all is done I do find him a mighty wise man as any I
know, and his counsel as much to be followed. Late with Mr. Hater upon
comparing the charge and husbandry of the last Dutch war with ours now,
and do find good roome to think we have done little worse than they,
whereof good use may and will be made. So home to supper, and to bed.