14th (Lord’s day). Long in bed, till raised by my new taylor, Mr. Penny,
[who comes and brings me my new velvet coat, very handsome, but plain,
and a day hence will bring me my camelott cloak.] He gone I close to
my papers and to set all in order and to perform my vow to finish my
journall and other things before I kiss any woman more or drink any
wine, which I must be forced to do to-morrow if I go to Greenwich as I
am invited by Mr. Boreman to hear Mrs. Knipp sing, and I would be glad
to go, so as we may be merry. At noon eat the second of the two cygnets
Mr. Shepley sent us for a new-year’s gift, and presently to my chamber
again and so to work hard all day about my Tangier accounts, which I am
going again to make up, as also upon writing a letter to my father about
Pall, whom it is time now I find to think of disposing of while God
Almighty hath given me something to give with her, and in my letter to
my father I do offer to give her L450 to make her own L50 given her by
my uncle up L500. I do also therein propose Mr. Harman the upholster for
a husband for her, to whom I have a great love and did heretofore love
his former wife, and a civil man he is and careful in his way, beside, I
like his trade and place he lives in, being Cornhill. Thus late at work,
and so to supper and to bed. This afternoon, after sermon, comes my dear
fair beauty of the Exchange, Mrs. Batelier, brought by her sister, an
acquaintance of Mercer’s, to see my wife. I saluted her with as much
pleasure as I had done any a great while. We sat and talked together an
houre, with infinite pleasure to me, and so the fair creature went away,
and proves one of the modestest women, and pretty, that ever I saw in my
life, and my [wife] judges her so too.