13th (Lord’s day). Up, and walked to White Hall, where we all met to
present a letter to the Duke of Yorke, complaining solemnly of the want
of money, and that being done, I to and again up and down Westminster,
thinking to have spent a little time with Sarah at the Swan, or Mrs.
Martin, but was disappointed in both, so walked the greatest part of the
way home, where comes Mr. Symons, my old acquaintance, to dine with me,
and I made myself as good company as I could to him, but he was mighty
impertinent methought too yet, and thereby I see the difference between
myself now and what it was heretofore, when I reckoned him a very brave
fellow. After dinner he and I walked together as far as Cheapside, and
I quite through to Westminster again, and fell by chance into St.
Margett’s’ Church, where I heard a young man play the foole upon the
doctrine of purgatory. At this church I spied Betty Howlett, who indeed
is mighty pretty, and struck me mightily. After church time, standing in
the Church yarde, she spied me, so I went to her, her father and mother
and husband being with her. They desired and I agreed to go home with
Mr. Michell, and there had the opportunity to have saluted two or three
times Betty and make an acquaintance which they are pleased with, though
not so much as I am or they think I am. I staid here an houre or more
chatting with them in a little sorry garden of theirs by the Bowling
Alley, and so left them and I by water home, and there was in great pain
in mind lest Sir W. Pen, who is going down to the Fleete, should come
to me or send for me to be informed in the state of things, and
particularly the Victualling, that by my pains he might seem wise. So
after spending an houre with my wife pleasantly in her closett, I to bed
even by daylight.