5th. Up, and before office time to Lumbard Streete, and there at Viner’s
was shewn the silver plates, made for Captain Cocke to present my Lord
Bruncker; and I chose a dozen of the same weight to be bespoke for
myself, which he told me yesterday he would give me on the same
occasion. To the office, where the falsenesse and impertinencies of Sir
W. Pen would make a man mad to think of. At noon would have avoided, but
could not, dining with my Lord Bruncker and his mistresse with Captain
Cocke at the Sun Taverne in Fish Streete, where a good dinner, but
the woman do tire me, and indeed how simply my Lord Bruncker, who is
otherwise a wise man, do proceed at the table in serving of Cocke,
without any means of understanding in his proposal, or defence when
proposed, would make a man think him a foole. After dinner home, where
I find my wife hath on a sudden, upon notice of a coach going away
to-morrow, taken a resolution of going in it to Brampton, we having
lately thought it fit for her to go to satisfy herself and me in the
nature of the fellow that is there proposed to my sister. So she to fit
herself for her journey and I to the office all the afternoon till late,
and so home and late putting notes to “It is decreed, nor shall thy
fate, &c.” and then to bed. The plague is, to our great grief, encreased
nine this week, though decreased a few in the total. And this encrease
runs through many parishes, which makes us much fear the next year.