4th. Up and by water to Westminster to Charing Cross (Mr. Gregory for
company with me) to Sir Ph. Warwicke’s, who was not within. So I took
Gregory to White Hall, and there spoke with Joseph Williamson to have
leave in the next Gazette to have a general pay for the Chest at Chatham
declared upon such a day in June. Here I left Gregory, and I by coach
back again to Sir Philip Warwicke’s, and in the Park met him walking,
so discoursed about the business of striking a quarter’s tallys for
Tangier, due this day, which he hath promised to get my Lord Treasurer’s
warrant for, and so away hence, and to Mr. Hales, to see what he had
done to Mrs. Pierces picture, and whatever he pretends, I do not think
it will ever be so good a picture as my wife’s. Thence home to the
office a little and then to dinner, and had a great fray with my wife
again about Browne’s coming to teach her to paynt, and sitting with me
at table, which I will not yield to. I do thoroughly believe she means
no hurte in it; but very angry we were, and I resolved all into my
having my will done, without disputing, be the reason what it will; and
so I will have it. After dinner abroad again and to the New Exchange
about play books, and to White Hall, thinking to have met Sir G.
Carteret, but failed. So to the Swan at Westminster, and there spent a
quarter of an hour with Jane, and thence away home, and my wife coming
home by and by (having been at her mother’s to pray her to look out for
a mayde for her) by coach into the fields to Bow, and so home back in
the evening, late home, and after supper to bed, being much out of order
for lack of somebody in the room of Su. This evening, being weary of my
late idle courses, and the little good I shall do the King or myself in
the office, I bound myself to very strict rules till Whitsunday next.