18th (Lord’s day). Up by candle-light and on foote to White Hall, where
by appointment I met Lord Bruncker at Sir W. Coventry’s chamber, and
there I read over my great letter, and they approved it: and as I do do
our business in defence of the Board, so I think it is as good a letter
in the manner, and believe it is the worst in the matter of it, as ever
come from any office to a Prince. Back home in my Lord Bruncker’s coach,
and there W. Hewer and I to write it over fair; dined at noon, and
Mercer with us, and mighty merry, and then to finish my letter; and it
being three o’clock ere we had done, when I come to Sir W. Batten; he
was in a huffe, which I made light of, but he signed the letter, though
he would not go, and liked the letter well. Sir W. Pen, it seems, he
would not stay for it: so, making slight of Sir W. Pen’s putting so much
weight upon his hand to Sir W. Batten, I down to the Tower Wharf, and
there got a sculler, and to White Hall, and there met Lord Bruncker, and
he signed it, and so I delivered it to Mr. Cheving,

     [William Chiffinch, pimp to Charles II. and receiver of the secret
     pensions paid by the French Court.  He succeeded his brother, Thomas
     Chiffinch (who died in April, 1666), as Keeper of the King’s Private
     Closet (see note, vol. v., p. 265).  He is introduced by Scott into
     his “Peveril of the Peak.”]

and he to Sir W. Coventry, in the cabinet, the King and councill being
sitting, where I leave it to its fortune, and I by water home again, and
to my chamber, to even my Journall; and then comes Captain Cocke to me,
and he and I a great deal of melancholy discourse of the times, giving
all over for gone, though now the Parliament will soon finish the Bill
for money. But we fear, if we had it, as matters are now managed, we
shall never make the best of it, but consume it all to no purpose or a
bad one. He being gone, I again to my Journall and finished it, and so
to supper and to bed.