16th. Up very betimes, and so down the river to Deptford to look after
some business, being by and by to attend the Duke and Mr. Coventry,
and so I was wiling to carry something fresh that I may look as a
man minding business, which I have done too much for a great while to
forfeit, and is now so great a burden upon my mind night and day that I
do not enjoy myself in the world almost. I walked thither, and come back
again by water, and so to White Hall, and did our usual business before
the Duke, and so to the Exchequer, where the lazy rogues have not yet
done my tallys, which vexes me. Thence to Mr. Hales, and paid him for my
picture, and Mr. Hill’s, for the first L14 for the picture, and 25s. for
the frame, and for the other L7 for the picture, it being a copy of his
only, and 5s. for the frame; in all, L22 10s. I am very well satisfied
in my pictures, and so took them in another coach home along with me,
and there with great pleasure my wife and I hung them up, and, that
being done, to dinner, where Mrs. Barbara Sheldon come to see us and
dined with us, and we kept her all the day with us, I going down to
Deptford, and, Lord! to see with what itching desire I did endeavour to
see Bagwell’s wife, but failed, for which I am glad, only I observe the
folly of my mind that cannot refrain from pleasure at a season above all
others in my life requisite for me to shew my utmost care in. I walked
both going and coming, spending my time reading of my Civill and
Ecclesiastical Law book. Being returned home, I took my wife and Mrs.
Barbary and Mercer out by coach and went our Grand Tour, and baited at
Islington, and so late home about 11 at night, and so with much pleasure
to bed.