10th. Up, and at my office all the morning, and several people with me,
Sir W. Warren, who I do every day more and more admire for a miracle of
cunning and forecast in his business, and then Captain Cocke, with whom
I walked in the garden, and he tells me how angry the Court is at the
late Proviso brought in by the House. How still my Lord Chancellor is,
not daring to do or say any thing to displease the Parliament; that the
Parliament is in a very ill humour, and grows every day more and more
so; and that the unskilfulness of the Court, and their difference among
one another, is the occasion of all not agreeing in what they would
have, and so they give leisure and occasion to the other part to run
away with what the Court would not have. Then comes Mr. Gawden, and he
and I in my chamber discoursing about his business, and to pay him some
Tangier orders which he delayed to receive till I had money instead of
tallies, but do promise me consideration for my victualling business for
this year, and also as Treasurer for Tangier, which I am glad of, but
would have been gladder to have just now received it. He gone, I alone
to dinner at home, my wife and her people being gone down the river
to-day for pleasure, though a cold day and dark night to come up. In the
afternoon I to the Excise Office to enter my tallies, which I did, and
come presently back again, and then to the office and did much business,
and then home to supper, my wife and people being come well and hungry
home from Erith. Then I to begin the setting of a Base to “It is
Decreed,” and so to bed.