21st. Up between 4 and 5 o’clock and to set several papers to rights,
and so to the office, where we had an extraordinary meeting. But, Lord!
how it torments me to find myself so unable to give an account of my
Victualling business, which puts me out of heart in every thing else,
so that I never had a greater shame upon me in my owne mind, nor more
trouble as to publique business than I have now, but I will get out of
it as soon as possibly I can. At noon dined at home, and after dinner
comes in my wife’s brother Balty and his wife, he being stepped ashore
from the fleete for a day or two. I away in some haste to my Lord Ashly,
where it is stupendous to see how favourably, and yet closely, my Lord
Ashly carries himself to Mr. Yeabsly, in his business, so as I think
we shall do his business for him in very good manner. But it is a most
extraordinary thing to observe, and that which I would not but have had
the observation of for a great deal of money. Being done there, and
much forwarded Yeabsly’s business, I with Sir H. Cholmly to my Lord
Bellassis, who is lately come from Tangier to visit him, but is not
within. So to Westminster Hall a little about business and so home by
water, and then out with my wife, her brother, sister, and Mercer to
Islington, our grand tour, and there eat and drank. But in discourse
I am infinitely pleased with Balty, his deportment in his business of
Muster-Master, and hope mighty well from him, and am glad with all my
heart I put him into this business. Late home and to bed, they also
lying at my house, he intending to go away to-morrow back again to sea.