17th. Up betimes, and shaved myself after a week’s growth, but, Lord!
how ugly I was yesterday and how fine to-day! By water, seeing the City
all the way, a sad sight indeed, much fire being still in. To Sir W.
Coventry, and there read over my yesterday’s work: being a collection
of the particulars of the excess of charge created by a war, with good
content. Sir W. Coventry was in great pain lest the French fleete should
be passed by our fleete, who had notice of them on Saturday, and were
preparing to go meet them; but their minds altered, and judged them
merchant-men, when the same day the Success, Captain Ball, made their
whole fleete, and come to Brighthelmstone, and thence at five o’clock
afternoon, Saturday, wrote Sir W. Coventry newes thereof; so that we do
much fear our missing them. Here come in and talked with him Sir Thomas
Clifford, who appears a very fine gentleman, and much set by at Court
for his activity in going to sea, and stoutness everywhere, and stirring
up and down. Thence by coach over the ruines, down Fleete Streete and
Cheapside to Broad Streete to Sir G. Carteret, where Sir W. Batten (and
Sir J. Minnes, whom I had not seen a long time before, being his first
coming abroad) and Lord Bruncker passing his accounts. Thence home a
little to look after my people at work and back to Sir G. Carteret’s
to dinner; and thence, after some discourse; with him upon our publique
accounts, I back home, and all the day with Harman and his people
finishing the hangings and beds in my house, and the hangings will be as
good as ever, and particularly in my new closet. They gone and I weary,
my wife and I, and Balty and his wife, who come hither to-day to helpe
us, to a barrel of oysters I sent from the river today, and so to bed.