25th. Up betimes, with all my people to get the letter writ over, and
other things done, which I did, and by coach to Lord Bruncker’s, and got
his hand to it; and then to the Parliament House and got it signed
by the rest, and then delivered it at the House-door to Sir Philip
Warwicke; Sir G. Carteret being gone into the House with his book of
accounts under his arme, to present to the House. I had brought my wife
to White Hall, and leaving her with Mrs. Michell, where she sat in her
shop and had burnt wine sent for her, I walked in the Hall, and among
others with Ned Picketing, who continues still a lying, bragging
coxcombe, telling me that my Lord Sandwich may thank himself for all his
misfortune; for not suffering him and two or three good honest fellows
more to take them by the throats that spoke ill of him, and told me how
basely Lionell Walden hath carried himself towards my Lord; by speaking
slightly of him, which I shall remember. Thence took my wife home to
dinner, and then to the office, where Mr. Hater all the day putting in
order and entering in a book all the measures that this account of the
Navy hath been made up by, and late at night to Mrs. Turner’s, where she
had got my wife and Lady Pen and Pegg, and supped, and after, supper and
the rest of the company by design gone, Mrs. Turner and her husband did
lay their case to me about their lodgings, Sir J. Minnes being now gone
wholly to his owne, and now, they being empty, they doubt Sir T. Harvy
or Lord Bruncker may look after the lodgings. I did give them the best
advice, poor people, that I could, and would do them any kindnesse,
though it is strange that now they should have ne’er a friend of Sir W.
Batten or Sir W. Pen to trust to but me, that they have disobliged. So
home to bed, and all night still mightily troubled in my sleepe, with
fire and houses pulling down.