10th (Fast-day for the fire). Up with Sir W. Batten by water to White
Hall, and anon had a meeting before the Duke of York, where pretty to
see how Sir W. Batten, that carried the surveys of all the fleete with
him, to shew their ill condition to the Duke of York, when he found
the Prince there, did not speak one word, though the meeting was of his
asking--for nothing else. And when I asked him, he told me he knew the
Prince too well to anger him, so that he was afeard to do it. Thence
with him to Westminster, to the parish church, where the Parliament-men,
and Stillingfleete in the pulpit. So full, no standing there; so he
and I to eat herrings at the Dog Taverne. And then to church again, and
there was Mr. Frampton in the pulpit, they cry up so much, a young man,
and of a mighty ready tongue. I heard a little of his sermon, and liked
it; but the crowd so great, I could not stay. So to the Swan, and ‘baise
la fille’, and drank, and then home by coach, and took father, wife,
brother, and W. Hewer to Islington, where I find mine host dead. Here
eat and drank, and merry; and so home, and to the office a while, and
then to Sir W. Batten to talk a while, and with Captain Cocke into the
office to hear his newes, who is mighty conversant with Garraway and
those people, who tells me what they object as to the maladministration
of things as to money. But that they mean well, and will do well; but
their reckonings are very good, and show great faults, as I will insert
here. They say the king hath had towards this war expressly thus much

     Royal Ayde.................................... L2,450,000
     More..........................................  1,250,000
     Three months’ tax given the King by a power of
          raising a month’s tax of L70,000 every
          year for three years.....................  0,210,000
     Customes, out of which the King did promise
          to pay L240,000, which for two years
          comes to.................................. 0,480,000
     Prizes, which they moderately reckon at........ 0,300,000
     A debt declared by the Navy, by us............. 0,900,000
                                                    ----------