3rd. Up and to the office, where Sir W. Batten and I sat to contract for
some fire-ships. I there close all the morning. At noon home to dinner,
and then abroad to Sir Philip Warwicke’s at White Hall about Tangier one
quarter tallys, and there had some serious discourse touching money, and
the case of the Navy, wherein all I could get of him was that we had the
full understanding of the treasure as much as my Lord Treasurer himself,
and knew what he can do, and that whatever our case is, more money
cannot be got till the Parliament. So talked of getting an account
ready as soon as we could to give the Parliament, and so very melancholy
parted. So I back again, calling my wife at her sister’s, from whose
husband we do now hear that he was safe this week, and going in a ship
to the fleete from the buoy of the Nore, where he has been all this
while, the fleete being gone before he got down. So home, and busy till
night, and then to Sir W. Pen, with my wife, to sit and chat, and a
small supper, and home to bed. The death of Everson, and the report of
our success, beyond expectation, in the killing of so great a number of
men, hath raised the estimation of the late victory considerably; but it
is only among fools: for all that was but accidental. But this morning,
getting Sir.W. Pen to read over the Narrative with me, he did sparingly,
yet plainly, say that we might have intercepted their Zealand squadron
coming home, if we had done our parts; and more, that we might have
spooned before the wind as well as they, and have overtaken their ships
in the pursuite, in all the while.

     [To spoom, or spoon, is to go right before the wind, without any
     sail.  Sea Dictionary.  Dryden uses the word

              “When virtue spooms before a prosperous gale,
               My heaving wishes help to fill the sail.”
                                         Hind and Panther, iii. 96.]