14th (Lord’s day). Lay long in bed, among other things, talking of my
wife’s renewing her acquaintance with Mrs. Pierce, which, by my wife’s
ill using her when she was here last, hath been interrupted. Herein we
were a little angry together, but presently friends again; and so up,
and I to church, which was mighty full, and my beauties, Mrs. Lethulier
and fair Batelier, both there. A very foul morning, and rained; and sent
for my cloake to go out of the church with. So dined, and after dinner
(a good discourse thereat to my brother) he and I by water to White
Hall, and he to Westminster Abbey. Here I met with Sir Stephen Fox, who
told me how much right I had done myself, and how well it is represented
by the Committee to the House, my readinesse to give them satisfaction
in everything when they were at the office. I was glad of this. He
did further discourse of Sir W. Coventry’s, great abilities, and how
necessary it were that I were of the House to assist him. I did not owne
it, but do myself think it were not unnecessary if either he should die,
or be removed to the Lords, or any thing to hinder his doing the like
service the next trial, which makes me think that it were not a thing
very unfit; but I will not move in it. He and I parted, I to Mrs.
Martin’s, thinking to have met Mrs. Burrows, but she was not there, so
away and took my brother out of the Abbey and home, and there to set
some accounts right, and to the office to even my Journall, and so home
to supper and to bed.