3. That ships, when they are a little shattered, must not take the
liberty to come in of themselves, but refit themselves the best
they can, and stay out--many of our ships coming in with very small
disablenesses. He told me that our very commanders, nay, our very
flag-officers, do stand in need of exercising among themselves, and
discoursing the business of commanding a fleete; he telling me that
even one of our flag-men in the fleete did not know which tacke lost
the wind, or which kept it, in the last engagement. He says it was pure
dismaying and fear that made them all run upon the Galloper, not having
their wits about them; and that it was a miracle they were not all
lost. He much inveighs upon my discoursing of Sir John Lawsonâ€™s saying
heretofore, that sixty sail would do as much as one hundred; and says
that he was a man of no counsel at all, but had got the confidence to
say as the gallants did, and did propose to himself to make himself
great by them, and saying as they did; but was no man of judgement in
his business, but hath been out in the greatest points that have come
before them. And then in the business of fore-castles, which he did
oppose, all the world sees now the use of them for shelter of men. He
did talk very rationally to me, insomuch that I took more pleasure this
night in hearing him discourse, than I ever did in my life in any thing
that he said. He gone I to the office again, and so after some business
home to supper and to bed.