21st. Up, with Sir W. Batten to Charing Cross, and thence I to wait on
Sir Philip Howard, whom I find dressing himself in his night-gown and
turban like a Turke, but one of the finest persons that ever I saw in
my life. He had several gentlemen of his owne waiting on him, and one
playing finely on the gittar: he discourses as well as ever I heard man,
in few words and handsome. He expressed all kindness to Balty, when I
told him how sick he is: he says that, before he comes to be mustered
again, he must bring a certificate of his swearing the oaths of
Allegiance and Supremacy, and having taken the Sacrament according to
the rites of the Church of England. This, I perceive, is imposed on all,
and he will be ready to do. I pray God he may have his health again to
be able to do it. Being mightily satisfied with his civility, I away
to Westminster Hall, and there walked with several people, and all the
discourse is about some trouble in Scotland I heard of yesterday, but
nobody can tell the truth of it. Here was Betty Michell with her mother.
I would have carried her home, but her father intends to go with her, so
I lost my hopes. And thence I to the Excise Office about some tallies,
and then to the Exchange, where I did much business, and so home to
dinner, and then to the office, where busy all the afternoon till night,
and then home to supper, and after supper an hour reading to my wife and
brother something in Chaucer with great pleasure, and so to bed.