7th (Lord’s day). Up, and being trimmed I was invited by Captain Cocke,
so I left my wife, having a mind to some discourse with him, and dined
with him. He tells me of new difficulties about his goods which troubles
me and I fear they will be great. He tells me too what I hear everywhere
how the towne talks of my Lord Craven being to come into Sir G.
Carteret’s place; but sure it cannot be true. But I do fear those two
families, his and my Lord Sandwich’s, are quite broken. And I must now
stand upon my own legs. Thence to my lodging, and considering how I am
hindered by company there to do any thing among my papers, I did resolve
to go away to-day rather than stay to no purpose till to-morrow and so
got all my things packed up and spent half an hour with W. Howe about
his papers of accounts for contingencies and my Lord’s accounts, so took
leave of my landlady and daughters, having paid dear for what time I
have spent there, but yet having been quiett and my health, I am very
well contented therewith. So with my wife and Mercer took boat and
away home; but in the evening, before I went, comes Mrs. Knipp, just
to speake with me privately, to excuse her not coming to me yesterday,
complaining how like a devil her husband treats her, but will be with us
in towne a weeke hence, and so I kissed her and parted. Being come home,
my wife and I to look over our house and consider of laying out a little
money to hang our bedchamber better than it is, and so resolved to go
and buy something to-morrow, and so after supper, with great joy in my
heart for my coming once again hither, to bed.