10th. Up and to the office, where Sir W. Coventry come to tell us that
the Parliament did fall foul of our accounts again yesterday; and we
must arme to have them examined, which I am sorry for: it will bring
great trouble to me, and shame upon the office. My head full this
morning how to carry on Captain Cocke’s bargain of hemp, which I think I
shall by my dexterity do, and to the King’s advantage as well as my own.
At noon with my Lord Bruncker and Sir Thomas Harvy, to Cocke’s house,
and there Mrs. Williams and other company, and an excellent dinner. Mr.
Temple’s wife; after dinner, fell to play on the harpsicon, till she
tired everybody, that I left the house without taking leave, and no
creature left standing by her to hear her. Thence I home and to the
office, where late doing of business, and then home. Read an hour, to
make an end of Potter’s Discourse of the Number 666, which I like all
along, but his close is most excellent; and, whether it be right or
wrong, is mighty ingenious. Then to supper and to bed. This is the fatal
day that every body hath discoursed for a long time to be the day that
the Papists, or I know not who, had designed to commit a massacre upon;
but, however, I trust in God we shall rise to-morrow morning as well
as ever. This afternoon Creed comes to me, and by him, as, also my Lady
Pen, I hear that my Lady Denham is exceeding sick, even to death, and
that she says, and every body else discourses, that she is poysoned; and
Creed tells me, that it is said that there hath been a design to poison
the King. What the meaning of all these sad signs is, the Lord knows;
but every day things look worse and worse. God fit us for the worst!