7th. Up betimes to set my Victualling papers in order against Sir W.
Coventry comes, which indeed makes me very melancholy, being conscious
that I am much to seeke in giving a good answer to his queries about the
Victualling business. At the office mighty busy, and brought myself into
a pretty plausible condition before Sir W. Coventry come, and did give
him a pretty tolerable account of every thing and went with him into the
Victualling office, where we sat and examined his businesses and state
of the victualling of the fleete, which made me in my heart blushe that
I could say no more to it than I did or could. But I trust in God I
shall never be in that condition again. We parted, and I with pretty
good grace, and so home to dinner, where my wife troubled more and more
with her swollen cheek. So to dinner, my sister-in-law with us, who I
find more and more a witty woman; and then I to my Lord Treasurer’s and
the Exchequer about my Tangier businesses, and with my content passed by
all things and persons without so much as desiring any stay or loss
of time with them, being by strong vowe obliged on no occasion to stay
abroad but my publique offices. So home again, where I find Mrs. Pierce
and Mrs. Ferrers come to see my wife. I staid a little with them, being
full of business, and so to the office, where busy till late at night
and so weary and a little conscious of my failures to-day, yet proud
that the day is over without more observation on Sir W. Coventry’s part,
and so to bed and to sleepe soundly.