14th. Up, and to the office, and there sat all the morning. At noon
dined at home, and thence with my wife and father to Hales’s, and there
looked only on my father’s picture (which is mighty like); and so away
to White Hall to a committee for Tangier, where the Duke of York was,
and Sir W. Coventry, and a very full committee; and instead of having
a very prejudiced meeting, they did, though indeed inclined against
Yeabsly, yield to the greatest part of his account, so as to allow of
his demands to the value of L7,000 and more, and only give time for him
to make good his pretence to the rest; which was mighty joy to me: and
so we rose up. But I must observe the force of money, which did make my
Lord Ashly to argue and behave himself in the business with the greatest
friendship, and yet with all the discretion imaginable; and [it] will be
a business of admonition and instruction to me concerning him (and other
men, too, for aught I know) as long as I live. Thence took Creed with
some kind of violence and some hard words between us to St. James’s, to
have found out Sir W. Coventry to have signed the order for his payment
among others that did stay on purpose to do it (and which is strange
among the rest my Lord Ashly, who did cause Creed to write it presently
and kept two or three of them with him by cunning to stay and sign it),
but Creed’s ill nature (though never so well bribed, as it hath lately
in this case by twenty pieces) will not be overcome from his usual
delays. Thence failing of meeting Sir W. Coventry I took leave of Creed
(very good friends) and away home, and there took out my father, wife,
sister, and Mercer our grand Tour in the evening, and made it ten at
night before we got home, only drink at the doore at Islington at the
Katherine Wheel, and so home and to the office a little, and then to
bed.