16th. Up, and set my people, Mercer, W. Hewer, Tom and the girle at work
at ruling and stitching my ruled book for the Muster-Masters, and I hard
toward the settling of my Tangier accounts. At noon dined alone, the
girl Mercer taking physique can eat nothing, and W. Hewer went forth to
dinner. So up to my accounts again, and then comes Mrs. Mercer and fair
Mrs. Turner, a neighbour of hers that my wife knows by their means, to
visit me. I staid a great while with them, being taken with this pretty
woman, though a mighty silly, affected citizen woman she is. Then I left
them to come to me at supper anon, and myself out by coach to the old
woman in Pannyer Alley for my ruled papers, and they are done, and I am
much more taken with her black maid Nan. Thence further to Westminster,
thinking to have met Mrs. Martin, but could not find her, so back and
called at Kirton’s to borrow 10s. to pay for my ruled papers, I having
not money in my pocket enough to pay for them. But it was a pretty
consideration that on this occasion I was considering where I could with
most confidence in a time of need borrow 10s., and I protest I could not
tell where to do it and with some trouble and fear did aske it here. So
that God keepe me from want, for I shall be in a very bad condition to
helpe myself if ever I should come to want or borrow. Thence called for
my papers and so home, and there comes Mrs. Turner and Mercer and supped
with me, and well pleased I was with their company, but especially Mrs.
Turner’s, she being a very pretty woman of person and her face pretty
good, the colour of her haire very fine and light. They staid with me
talking till about eleven o’clock and so home, W. Hewer, who supped with
me, leading them home. So I to bed.