28th. Lay long in bed, and am come to agreement with my wife to have
Mercer again, on condition she may learn this winter two months to
dance, and she promises me she will endeavour to learn to sing, and all
this I am willing enough to. So up, and by and by the glazier comes to
finish the windows of my house, which pleases me, and the bookbinder
to gild the backs of my books. I got the glass of my book-presses to be
done presently, which did mightily content me, and to setting my study
in a little better order; and so to my office to my people, busy about
our Parliament accounts; and so to dinner, and then at them again close.
At night comes Sir W. Pen, and he and I a turn in the garden, and he
broke to me a proposition of his and my joining in a design of fetching
timber and deals from Scotland, by the help of Mr. Pett upon the place;
which, while London is building, will yield good money. I approve it. We
judged a third man, that is knowing, is necessary, and concluded on Sir
W. Warren, and sent for him to come to us to-morrow morning. I full of
this all night, and the project of our man of war; but he and, I both
dissatisfied with Sir W. Battenâ€™s proposing his son to be Lieutenant,
which we, neither of us, like. He gone, I discoursed with W. Hewer about
Mercer, having a great mind she should come to us again, and instructed
him what to say to her mother about it. And so home, to supper, and to
bed.