25th. Up betimes and to my chamber to do business, where the greatest
part of the morning. Then out to the â€˜Change to speake with Captain
[Cocke], who tells me my silver plates are ready for me, and shall be
sent me speedily; and proposes another proposition of serving us with
a thousand tons of hempe, and tells me it shall bring me 6500, if the
bargain go forward, which is a good word. Thence to Sir G. Carteret, who
is at the pay of the tickets with Sir J. Minnes this day, and here I sat
with them a while, the first time I ever was there, and thence to dinner
with him, a good dinner. Here come a gentleman over from France arrived
here this day, Mr. Browne of St. Mellos, who, among other things, tells
me the meaning of the setting out of doggs every night out of the towne
walls, which are said to secure the city; but it is not so, but only
to secure the anchors, cables, and ships that lie dry, which might
otherwise in the night be liable to be robbed. And these doggs are set
out every night, and called together in every morning by a man with a
home, and they go in very orderly. Thence home, and there find Knipp at
dinner with my wife, now very big, and within a fortnight of lying down.
But my head was full of business and so could have no sport. So I left
them, promising to return and take them out at night, and so to the
Excise Office, where a meeting was appointed of Sir Stephen Fox, the
Cofferer, and myself, to settle the business of our tallys, and it was
so pretty well against another meeting. Thence away home to the office
and out again to Captain Cocke (Mr. Moore for company walking with me
and discoursing and admiring of the learning of Dr. Spencer), and there
he and I discoursed a little more of our matters, and so home, and
(Knipp being gone) took out my wife and Mercer to take the ayre a
little, and so as far as Hackney and back again, and then to bed.