5th. I was at it till past two o’clock on Monday morning, and then read
my vowes, and to bed with great joy and content that I have brought my
things to so good a settlement, and now having my mind fixed to follow
my business again and sensible of Sir W. Coventry’s jealousies, I doubt,
concerning me, partly my siding with Sir G. Carteret, and partly that
indeed I have been silent in my business of the office a great while,
and given but little account of myself and least of all to him, having
not made him one visitt since he came to towne from Oxford, I am
resolved to fall hard to it again, and fetch up the time and interest I
have lost or am in a fair way of doing it. Up about eight o’clock, being
called up by several people, among others by Mr. Moone, with whom I went
to Lumbard Streete to Colvill, and so back again and in my chamber he
and I did end all our businesses together of accounts for money upon
bills of Exchange, and am pleased to find myself reputed a man of
business and method, as he do give me out to be. To the ‘Change at
noon and so home to dinner. Newes for certain of the King of Denmarke’s
declaring for the Dutch, and resolution to assist them. To the office,
and there all the afternoon. In the evening come Mr. James and brother
Houblons to agree upon share parties for their ships, and did acquaint
me that they had paid my messenger, whom I sent this afternoon for it,
L200 for my friendship in the business, which pleases me mightily. They
being gone I forth late to Sir H. Viner’s to take a receipt of them
for the L200 lodged for me there with them, and so back home, and after
supper to bed.