28th. Up, and down to the Old Swan, and there drank at Michell’s and saw
Betty, and so took boat and to the Temple, and thence to my tailor’s and
other places about business in my way to Westminster, where I spent the
morning at the Lords’ House door, to hear the conference between the
two Houses about my Lord Mordaunt, of which there was great expectation,
many hundreds of people coming to hear it. But, when they come, the
Lords did insist upon my Lord Mordaunt’s having leave to sit upon a
stool uncovered within their burr, and that he should have counsel,
which the Commons would not suffer, but desired leave to report their
Lordships’ resolution to the House of Commons; and so parted for this
day, which troubled me, I having by this means lost the whole day. Here
I hear from Mr. Hayes that Prince Rupert is very bad still, and so bad,
that he do now yield to be trepanned. It seems, as Dr. Clerke also tells
me, it is a clap of the pox which he got about twelve years ago, and
hath eaten to his head and come through his scull, so his scull must be
opened, and there is great fear of him. Much work I find there is to do
in the two Houses in a little time, and much difference there is between
the two Houses in many things to be reconciled; as in the Bill for
examining our accounts; Lord Mordaunt’s Bill for building the City, and
several others. A little before noon I went to the Swan and eat a bit
of meat, thinking I should have had occasion to have stayed long at the
house, but I did not, but so home by coach, calling at Broad Street and
taking the goldsmith home with me, and paid him L15 15s. for my silver
standish. He tells me gold holds up its price still, and did desire me
to let him have what old 20s. pieces I have, and he would give me 3s.