15th. All the morning at the office. No newes more than last night; only
Purser Tyler comes and tells me that he being at all the passages in
this business at Chatham, he says there have been horrible miscarriages,
such as we shall shortly hear of: that the want of boats hath undone us;
and it is commonly said, and Sir J. Minnes under his hand tells us, that
they were employed by the men of the Yard to carry away their goods; and
I hear that Commissioner Pett will be found the first man that began
to remove; he is much spoken against, and Bruncker is complained of and
reproached for discharging the men of the great ships heretofore. At
noon Mr. Hater dined with me; and tells me he believes that it will
hardly be the want of money alone that will excuse to the Parliament the
neglect of not setting out a fleete, it having never been done in our
greatest straits, but however unlikely it appeared, yet when it was gone
about, the State or King did compass it; and there is something in it.
In like manner all the afternoon busy, vexed to see how slowly things go
on for want of money. At night comes, unexpectedly so soon, Mr. Gibson,
who left my wife well, and all got down well with them, but not with
himself, which I was afeard of, and cannot blame him, but must myself
be wiser against another time. He had one of his bags broke, through his
breeches, and some pieces dropped out, not many, he thinks, but two, for
he â€˜light, and took them up, and went back and could find no more. But
I am not able to tell how many, which troubles me, but the joy of having
the greatest part safe there makes me bear with it, so as not to afflict
myself for it. This afternoon poor Betty Michell, whom I love, sent to
tell my wife her child was dying, which I am troubled for, poor girle!
At night home and to my flageolet. Played with pleasure, but with a
heavy heart, only it pleased me to think how it may please God I may
live to spend my time in the country with plainness and pleasure, though
but with little glory. So to supper and to bed.