22nd. Up betimes, and drinking my morning draught of strong water with
Betty Michell, I had not opportunity para baiser la, I by water to White
Hall, and there met Creed, and thence with him to Westminster Hall,
where we talked long together of news, and there met with Cooling, my
Lord Chamberlain’s Secretary, and from him learn the truth of all I
heard last night; and understand further, that this stiffness of the
Lords is in no manner of kindness to my Lord Chancellor, for he neither
hath, nor do, nor for the future likely can oblige any of them, but
rather the contrary; but that they do fear what the consequence may
be to themselves, should they yield in his case, as many of them have
reason. And more, he shewed me how this is rather to the wrong and
prejudice of my Lord Chancellor; for that it is better for him to come
to be tried before the Lords, where he can have right and make interest,
than, when the Parliament is up, be committed by the King, and tried by
a Court on purpose made by the King, of what Lords the King pleases, who
have a mind to have his head. So that my Lord [Cornbury] himself, his
son, he tells me, hath moved, that if they have Treason against my Lord
of Clarendon, that they would specify it and send it up to the Lords,
that he might come to his trial; so full of intrigues this business is!
Having now a mind to go on and to be rid of Creed, I could not, but
was forced to carry him with me to the Excise Office, and thence to the
Temple, and there walked a good while in the Temple church, observing
the plainness of Selden’s tomb, and how much better one of his executors
hath, who is buried by him, and there I parted with him and took coach
and home, where to dinner.