5th. Up, and to the office, where met and sat all the morning, doing
little for want of money, but only bear the countenance of an office.
At noon home to dinner, and then to the office again, and there comes
Martin my purser, and I walked with him awhile in the garden, I giving
him good advice to beware of coming any more with high demands for
supernumeraries or other things, for now Sir W. Pen is come to mind the
business, the passing of his accounts will not be so easy as the last.
He tells me he will never need it again, it being as easy, and to as
much purpose to do the same thing otherwise, and how he do keep his
Captainâ€™s table, and by that means hath the command of his Captains,
and do not fear in a 5th-rate ship constantly employed to get a L1000 in
five years time, and this year, besides all his spendings, which are I
fear high, he hath got at this day clear above L150 in a voyage of about
five or six months, which is a brave trade. He gone I to the office, and
there all the afternoon late doing much business, and then to see Sir W.
Batten, whose leg is all but better than it was, and like to do well. I
by discourse do perceive he and his Lady are to their hearts out with
my Lord Bruncker and Mrs. Williams, to which I added something, but, I
think, did not venture too far with them. But, Lord! to see to what a
poor content any acquaintance among these people, or the people of the
world, as they now-adays go, is worth; for my part I and my wife will
keep to one another and let the world go hang, for there is nothing but
falseness in it. So home to supper and hear my wife and girle sing a
little, and then to bed with much content of mind.