12th. Up, and to the office, where all-the morning, and my Lord Bruncker
mighty quiet, and no words all day, which I wonder at, expecting that he
would have fallen again upon the business of Carcasse, and the more for
that here happened that Perkins, who was the greatest witness of all
against him, was brought in by Sir W. Batten to prove that he did really
belong to The Prince, but being examined was found rather a fool than
anything, as not being able to give any account when he come in nor when
he come out of her, more than that he was taken by the Dutch in her,
but did agree in earnest to Sir W. Pen’s saying that she lay up all, the
winter before at Lambeth. This I confess did make me begin to doubt the
truth of his evidence, but not to doubt the faults of Carcasse, for
he was condemned by, many other better evidences than his, besides the
whole world’s report. At noon home, and there find Mr. Goodgroome, whose
teaching of my wife only by singing over and over again to her, and
letting her sing with him, not by herself, to correct her faults, I do
not like at all, but was angry at it; but have this content, that I do
think she will come to sing pretty well, and to trill in time, which
pleases me well. He dined with us, and then to the office, when we had a
sorry meeting to little purpose, and then broke up, and I to my office,
and busy late to good purpose, and so home to supper and to bed. This
day a poor seaman, almost starved for want of food, lay in our yard
a-dying. I sent him half-a-crown, and we ordered his ticket to be paid.