7th. Up betimes, and by coach to St. James’s; but there find Sir W.
Coventry gone out betimes this morning, on horseback, with the King and
Duke of York, to Putney-heath,--to run some horses, and so back again to
the office, where some witnesses from Chatham which I sent for are come
up, and do give shrewd testimonies against Carcasse, which put my Lord
into a new flame, and he and I to high words, and so broke up. Then home
to dinner, where W. Hewer dined with us, and he and I after dinner to
discourse of Carcasses business, wherein I apparently now do manage
it wholly against my Lord Bruncker, Sir W. Pen, like a false rogue,
shrinking out of the collar, Sir J. Minnes, afoot, being easily led
either way, and Sir W. Batten, a malicious fellow that is not able to
defend any thing, so that the whole odium must fall on me, which I will
therefore beware how I manage that I may not get enemies to no purpose.
It vexes me to see with what a company I am mixed, but then it pleases
me to see that I am reckoned the chief mover among them, as they do,
confess and esteem me in every thing. Thence to the office, and did
business, and then by coach to St. James’s again, but [Sir] W. Coventry
not within, so I wrote something to him, and then straight back again
and to Sir W. Batten’s, and there talked with him and [Sir] J. Minnes,
who are mighty hot in Carcasses business, but their judgment’s not to
be trusted. However, I will go through with it, or otherwise we shall be
all slaves to my Lord Bruncker and his man’s impudence. So to the office
a little, and then home to supper and to bed, after hearing my wife
sing, who is manifestly come to be more musical in her eare than ever I
thought she could have been made, which rejoices me to the heart, for I
take great delight now to hear her sing.