27th. Up, and all the morning at my Lord Bruncker’s lodgings with Sir J.
Minnes and [Sir] W. Pen about Sir W. Warren’s accounts, wherein I do not
see that they are ever very likely to come to an understanding of them,
as Sir J. Minnes hath not yet handled them. Here till noon, and then
home to dinner, where Mr. Pierce comes to me, and there, in general,
tells me how the King is now fallen in and become a slave to the Duke of
Buckingham, led by none but him, whom he, Mr. Pierce, swears he knows do
hate the very person of the King, and would, as well as will, certainly
ruin him. He do say, and I think with right, that the King do in this do
the most ungrateful part of a master to a servant that ever was done,
in this carriage of his to my Lord Chancellor: that, it may be, the
Chancellor may have faults, but none such as these they speak of; that
he do now really fear that all is going to ruin, for he says he hears
that Sir W. Coventry hath been, just before his sickness, with the Duke
of York, to ask his forgiveness and peace for what he had done; for that
he never could foresee that what he meant so well, in the councilling to
lay by the Chancellor, should come to this. As soon as dined, I with my
boy Tom to my bookbinder’s, where all the afternoon long till 8 or 9
at night seeing him binding up two or three collections of letters and
papers that I had of him, but above all things my little abstract pocket
book of contracts, which he will do very neatly. Then home to read, sup,
and to bed.