6th. Up, and betimes in the morning down to the Tower wharfe, there to
attend the shipping of soldiers, to go down to man some ships going out,
and pretty to see how merrily some, and most go, and how sad others--the
leave they take of their friends, and the terms that some wives, and
other wenches asked to part with them: a pretty mixture. So to the
office, having staid as long as I could, and there sat all the morning,
and then home at noon to dinner, and then abroad, Balty with me, and to
White Hall, by water, to Sir G. Carteret, about Balty’s L1500 contingent
money for the fleete to the West Indys, and so away with him to the
Exchange, and mercers and drapers, up and down, to pay all my scores
occasioned by this mourning for my mother; and emptied a L50 bag, and it
was a joy to me to see that I am able to part with such a sum, without
much inconvenience; at least, without any trouble of mind. So to Captain
Cocke’s to meet Fenn, to talk about this money for Balty, and there
Cocke tells me that he is confident there will be a peace, whatever
terms be asked us, and he confides that it will take because the French
and Dutch will be jealous one of another which shall give the best
terms, lest the other should make the peace with us alone, to the ruin
of the third, which is our best defence, this jealousy, for ought I at
present see. So home and there very late, very busy, and then home to
supper and to bed, the people having got their house very clean against
Monday’s dinner.