17th instant, directing all the Treasurers of any part of the King’s
revenue to make no payments but such as shall be approved by the present
Lords Commissioners; which will, I think, spoil the credit of all his
Majesty’s service, when people cannot depend upon payment any where.
But the King’s declaration in behalf of the bankers, to make good their
assignments for money, is very good, and will, I hope, secure me. Cocke
says, that he hears it is come to it now, that the King will try what
he can soon do for a peace; and if he cannot, that then he will cast all
upon the Parliament to do as they see fit: and in doing so, perhaps, he
may save us all. The King of France, it is believed, is engaged for this
year;

     [Louis XIV. was at this time in Flanders, with his queen, his
     mistresses, and all his Court.  Turenne commanded under him.  Whilst
     Charles was hunting moths at Lady Castlemaine’s, and the English
     fleet was burning, Louis was carrying on the campaign with vigour.
     Armentieres was taken on the 28th May; Charleroi on the 2nd June,
     St. Winox on the 6th, Fumes on the 12th, Ath on the 16th, Toumay on
     the 24th; the Escarpe on the 6th July, Courtray on the 18th,
     Audenarde on the 31st; and Lisle on the 27th August.--B.]

so that we shall be safe as to him. The great misery the City and
kingdom is like to suffer for want of coals in a little time is very
visible, and, is feared, will breed a mutiny; for we are not in any
prospect to command the sea for our colliers to come, but rather, it is
feared, the Dutch may go and burn all our colliers at Newcastle; though
others do say that they lie safe enough there. No news at all of late
from Bredagh what our Treaters do. By and by, all by water in three
boats to Greenwich, there to Cocke’s, where we supped well, and then
late, Wren, Fenn, and I home by water, set me in at the Tower, and they
to White Hall, and so I home, and after a little talk with my wife to
bed.