28th. Up, and at the office all this morning, and then home to dinner,
and then by coach sent my wife to the King’s playhouse, and I to White
Hall, there intending, with Lord Bruncker, Sir J. Minnes, and Sir T.
Harvy to have seen the Duke of York, whom it seems the King and Queen
have visited, and so we may now well go to see him. But there was nobody
could speak with him, and so we parted, leaving a note in Mr. Wren’s
chamber that we had been there, he being at the free conference of the
two Houses about this great business of my Lord Chancellor’s, at which
they were at this hour, three in the afternoon, and there they say my
Lord Anglesey do his part admirablyably, and each of us taking a copy
of the Guinny Company’s defence to a petition against them to the
Parliament the other day. So I away to the King’s playhouse, and there
sat by my wife, and saw “The Mistaken Beauty,” which I never, I think,
saw before, though an old play; and there is much in it that I like,
though the name is but improper to it--at least, that name, it being
also called “The Lyer,” which is proper enough. Here I met with Sir.
Richard Browne, who wondered to find me there, telling the that I am a
man of so much business, which character, I thank God, I have ever got,
and have for a long time had and deserved, and yet am now come to be
censured in common with the office for a man of negligence. Thence home
and to the office to my letters, and then home to supper and to bed.