10th (Lordâ€™s day). Up and with my wife to church, where Mr. Mills made
an unnecessary sermon upon Original Sin, neither understood by himself
nor the people. Home, where Michell and his wife, and also there come
Mr. Carter, my old acquaintance of Magdalene College, who hath not been
here of many years. He hath spent his time in the North with the
Bishop of Carlisle much. He is grown a very comely person, and of good
discourse, and one that I like very much. We had much talk of our old
acquaintance of the College, concerning their various fortunes; wherein,
to my joy, I met not with any that have sped better than myself. After
dinner he went away, and awhile after them Michell and his wife, whom
I love mightily, and then I to my chamber there to my Tangier accounts,
which I had let run a little behind hand, but did settle them very well
to my satisfaction, but it cost me sitting up till two in the morning,
and the longer by reason that our neighbour, Mrs. Turner, poor woman,
did come to take her leave of us, she being to quit her house to-morrow
to my Lord Bruncker, who hath used her very unhandsomely. She is going
to lodgings, and do tell me very odde stories how Mrs. Williams do
receive the applications of people, and hath presents, and she is the
hand that receives all, while my Lord Bruncker do the business, which
will shortly come to be loud talk if she continues here, I do foresee,
and bring my Lord no great credit. So having done all my business, to
bed.