5th. Up, and all the morning at the office, where we sat till noon, and
then I home to dinner, where Mary Batelier and her brother dined
with us, who grows troublesome in his talking so much of his going to
Marseilles, and what commissions he hath to execute as a factor, and a
deal of do of which I am weary. After dinner, with Sir W. Pen, my
wife, and Mary Batelier to the Duke of York’s house, and there saw
“Heraclius,” which is a good play; but they did so spoil it with their
laughing, and being all of them out, and with the noise they made within
the theatre, that I was ashamed of it, and resolve not to come thither
again a good while, believing that this negligence, which I never
observed before, proceeds only from their want of company in the pit,
that they have no care how they act. My wife was ill, and so I was
forced to go out of the house with her to Lincoln’s Inn walks, and there
in a corner she did her business, and was by and by well, and so into
the house again, but sick of their ill acting. So home and to the
office, where busy late, then home to supper and to bed. This morning
was told by Sir W. Batten, that he do hear from Mr. Grey, who hath good
intelligence, that our Queen is to go into a nunnery, there to spend her
days; and that my Lady Castlemayne is going into France, and is to have
a pension of L4000 a-year. This latter I do more believe than the other,
it being very wise in her to do it, and save all she hath, besides
easing the King and kingdom of a burden and reproach.