31st (Lord’s day). Up, and my tailor’s boy brings my mourning clothes
home, and my wife hers and Barker’s, but they go not to church this
morning. I to church, and with my mourning, very handsome, and new
periwigg, make a great shew. After church home to dinner, and there
come Betty Michell and her husband. I do and shall love her, but, poor
wretch, she is now almost ready to lie down. After dinner Balty (who
dined also with us) and I with Sir J. Minnes in his coach to White Hall,
but did nothing, but by water to Strand Bridge and thence walked to my
Lord Treasurer’s, where the King, Duke of York, and the Caball, and much
company without; and a fine day. Anon come out from the Caball my Lord
Hollis and Mr. H. Coventry, who, it is conceived, have received their
instructions from the King this day; they being to begin their journey
towards their treaty at Bredagh speedily, their passes being come.
Here I saw the Lady Northumberland and her daughter-in-law, my Lord
Treasurer’s daughter, my Lady Piercy, a beautiful lady indeed. So away
back by water, and left Balty at White Hall and I to Mrs. Martin.... and
so by coach home, and there to my chamber, and then to supper and bed,
having not had time to make up my accounts of this month at this very
day, but will in a day or two, and pay my forfeit for not doing it,
though business hath most hindered me. The month shuts up only with
great desires of peace in all of us, and a belief that we shall have a
peace, in most people, if a peace can be had on any terms, for there is
a necessity of it; for we cannot go on with the war, and our masters are
afraid to come to depend upon the good will of the Parliament any more,
as I do hear.