3rd part to a song, which will please mightily. So I to the office all
the morning, and at noon to the ‘Change, where I do hear that letters
this day come to Court do tell us that we are likely not to agree, the
Dutch demanding high terms, and the King of France the like, in a most
braving manner. The merchants do give themselves over for lost, no man
knowing what to do, whether to sell or buy, not knowing whether peace
or war to expect, and I am told that could that be now known a man might
get L20,000 in a week’s time by buying up of goods in case there should
be war. Thence home and dined well, and then with my wife, set her at
Unthanke’s and I to Sir G. Carteret, where talked with the ladies a
while, and my Lady Carteret talks nothing but sorrow and afflictions
coming on us, and indeed I do fear the same. So away and met Dr. Fuller,
Bishop of Limricke, and walked an hour with him in the Court talking of
newes only, and he do think that matters will be bad with us. Then to
Westminster Hall, and there spent an hour or two walking up and down,
thinking ‘para avoir’ got out Doll Lane, ‘sed je ne’ could do it, having
no opportunity ‘de hazer le, ainsi lost the tota’ afternoon, and so away
and called my wife and home, where a little at the office, and then home
to my closet to enter my journalls, and so to supper and to bed. This
noon come little Mis. Tooker, who is grown a little woman; ego had
opportunity ‘para baiser her.... This morning I was called up by Sir
John Winter, poor man! come in his sedan from the other end of the town,
before I was up, and merely about the King’s business, which is a worthy
thing of him, and I believe him to be a worthy good man, and I will
do him the right to tell the Duke of it, who did speak well of him the
other day. It was about helping the King in the business of bringing
down his timber to the sea-side, in the Forest of Deane.