19th. Up, and at the office all the morning very busy. Towards noon I to
Westminster about some tallies at the Exchequer, and then straight home
again and dined, and then to sing with my wife with great content, and
then I to the office again, where busy, and then out and took coach
and to the Duke of York’s house, all alone, and there saw “Sir Martin
Marr-all” again, though I saw him but two days since, and do find it the
most comical play that ever I saw in my life. Soon as the play done I
home, and there busy till night, and then comes Mr. Moore to me only to
discourse with me about some general things touching the badness of the
times, how ill they look, and he do agree with most people that I meet
with, that we shall fall into a commonwealth in a few years, whether we
will or no; for the charge of a monarchy is such as the kingdom cannot
be brought to bear willingly, nor are things managed so well nowadays
under it, as heretofore. He says every body do think that there is
something extraordinary that keeps us so long from the news of the peace
being ratified, which the King and the Duke of York have expected these
six days. He gone, my wife and I and Mrs. Turner walked in the garden a
good while till 9 at night, and then parted, and I home to supper and to
read a little (which I cannot refrain, though I have all the reason in
the world to favour my eyes, which every day grow worse and worse by
over-using them), and then to bed.