28th. Up; and staid undressed till my tailor’s boy did mend my vest, in
order to my going to the christening anon. Then out and to White Hall,
to attend the Council, by their order, with an answer to their demands
touching our advice for the paying off of the seamen, when the ships
shall come in, which answer is worth seeing, shewing the badness of our
condition. There, when I come, I was forced to stay till past twelve
o’clock, in a crowd of people in the lobby, expecting the hearing of the
great cause of Alderman Barker against my Lord Deputy of Ireland, for
his ill usage in his business of land there; but the King and Council
sat so long, as they neither heard them nor me. So when they rose, I
into the House, and saw the King and Queen at dinner, and heard a little
of their viallins’ musick, and so home, and there to dinner, and in the
afternoon with my Lady Batten, Pen, and her daughter, and my wife, to
Mrs. Poole’s, where I mighty merry among the women, and christened the
child, a girl, Elizabeth, which, though a girl, yet my Lady Batten would
have me to give the name. After christening comes Sir W. Batten, [Sir]
W. Pen, and Mr. Lowther, and mighty merry there, and I forfeited for
not kissing the two godmothers presently after the christening, before I
kissed the mother, which made good mirth; and so anon away, and my wife
and I took coach and went twice round Bartholomew fayre; which I was
glad to see again, after two years missing it by the plague, and so home
and to my chamber a little, and so to supper and to bed.