8th. Up, and all the morning at the office, where busy, and at noon
home to dinner, where Creed dined with us, who tells me that Sir Henry
Bellasses is dead of the duell he fought about ten days ago, with Tom
Porter; and it is pretty to see how the world talk of them as a couple
of fools, that killed one another out of love. After dinner to the
office a while, and then with my wife to the Temple, where I light and
sent her to her tailor’s. I to my bookseller’s; where, by and by, I met
Mr. Evelyn, and talked of several things, but particularly of the times:
and he tells me that wise men do prepare to remove abroad what they
have, for that we must be ruined, our case being past relief, the
kingdom so much in debt, and the King minding nothing but his lust,
going two days a-week to see my Lady Castlemayne at Sir D. Harvy’s. He
gone, I met with Mr. Moore, who tells me that my Lord Hinchingbroke is
now with his mistress, but not that he is married, as W. Howe come and
told us the other day. So by coach to White Hall, and there staid a
little, thinking to see Sir G. Carteret, but missed him, and so by coach
took up my wife, and so home, and as far as Bow, where we staid and
drank, and there, passing by Mr. Lowther and his lady, they stopped and
we talked a little with them, they being in their gilt coach, and so
parted; and presently come to us Mr. Andrews, whom I had not seen a good
while, who, as other merchants do, do all give over any hopes of things
doing well, and so he spends his time here most, playing at bowles.
After dining together at the coach-side, we with great pleasure home,
and so to the office, where I despatched my business, and home to
supper, and to bed.