14th, 1666 (vol. vi., p. 64).]

They purpose to let in about twelve ounces; which, they compute, is what
will be let in in a minute’s time by a watch. They differ in the opinion
they have of the effects of it; some think it may have a good effect
upon him as a frantic man by cooling his blood, others that it will not
have any effect at all. But the man is a healthy man, and by this means
will be able to give an account what alteration, if any, he do find in
himself, and so may be usefull. On this occasion, Dr. Whistler told a
pretty story related by Muffet, a good author, of Dr. Caius, that built
Keys College; that, being very old, and living only at that time upon
woman’s milk, he, while he fed upon the milk of an angry, fretful woman,
was so himself; and then, being advised to take it of a good-natured,
patient woman, he did become so, beyond the common temper of his age.
Thus much nutriment, they observed, might do. Their discourse was very
fine; and if I should be put out of my office, I do take great content
in the liberty I shall be at of frequenting these gentlemen’s company.
Broke up thence and home, and there to my wife in her chamber, who
is not well (of those), and there she tells me great stories of the
gossiping women of the parish--what this, and what that woman was; and,
among the rest, how Mrs. Hollworthy is the veriest confident bragging
gossip of them all, which I should not have believed; but that Sir R.
Brookes, her partner, was mighty civil to her, and taken with her, and
what not. My eyes being bad I spent the evening with her in her chamber
talking and inventing a cypher to put on a piece of plate, which I must
give, better than ordinary, to the Parson’s child, and so to bed, and
through my wife’s illness had a bad night of it, and she a worse, poor
wretch!