30th. Up, and to the office, where all the morning. At noon dined at
home, being without any words friends with my wife, though last night
I was very angry, and do think I did give her as much cause to be angry
with me. After dinner I walked to Arundell House, the way very dusty,
the day of meeting of the Society being changed from Wednesday
to Thursday, which I knew not before, because the Wednesday is a
Council-day, and several of the Council are of the Society, and would
come but for their attending the King at Council; where I find much
company, indeed very much company, in expectation of the Duchesse of
Newcastle, who had desired to be invited to the Society; and was, after
much debate, pro and con., it seems many being against it; and we do
believe the town will be full of ballads of it. Anon comes the Duchesse
with her women attending her; among others, the Ferabosco,2 of whom
so much talk is that her lady would bid her show her face and kill the
gallants. She is indeed black, and hath good black little eyes, but
otherwise but a very ordinary woman I do think, but they say sings well.
The Duchesse hath been a good, comely woman; but her dress so antick,
and her deportment so ordinary, that I do not like her at all, nor did I
hear her say any thing that was worth hearing, but that she was full of
admiration, all admiration. Several fine experiments were shown her of
colours, loadstones, microscopes, and of liquors among others, of one
that did, while she was there, turn a piece of roasted mutton into pure
blood, which was very rare. Here was Mrs. Moore of Cambridge, whom I had
not seen before, and I was glad to see her; as also a very pretty black
boy that run up and down the room, somebodyâ€™s child in Arundell House.
After they had shown her many experiments, and she cried still she was
full of admiration, she departed, being led out and in by several Lords
that were there; among others Lord George Barkeley and Earl of Carlisle,
and a very pretty young man, the Duke of Somerset. She gone, I by coach
home, and there busy at my letters till night, and then with my wife in
the evening singing with her in the garden with great pleasure, and so
home to supper and to bed.