24th (St. Bartholomew’s day). This morning was proclaimed the peace
between us and the States of the United Provinces, and also of the King
of France and Denmarke; and in the afternoon the Proclamations were
printed and come out; and at night the bells rung, but no bonfires that
I hear of any where, partly from the dearness of firing, but principally
from the little content most people have in the peace. All the morning
at the office. At noon dined, and Creed with me, at home. After dinner
we to a play, and there saw “The Cardinall” at the King’s house,
wherewith I am mightily pleased; but, above all, with Becke Marshall.
But it is pretty to observe how I look up and down for, and did spy
Knipp; but durst not own it to my wife that I see her, for fear of
angering her, who do not like my kindness to her, and so I was forced
not to take notice of her, and so homeward, leaving Creed at the Temple:
and my belly now full with plays, that I do intend to bind myself to see
no more till Michaelmas. So with my wife to Mile End, and there drank
of Bides ale, and so home. Most of our discourse is about our keeping a
coach the next year, which pleases my wife mightily; and if I continue
as able as now, it will save us money. This day comes a letter from the
Duke of York to the Board to invite us, which is as much as to fright
us, into the lending the King money; which is a poor thing, and most
dishonourable, and shows in what a case we are at the end of the war
to our neighbours. And the King do now declare publickly to give 10 per
cent. to all lenders; which makes some think that the Dutch themselves
will send over money, and lend it upon our publick faith, the Act of
Parliament. So home and to my office, wrote a little, and then home to
supper and to bed.