10th. Up and to the office, where a meeting about the Victuallers’
accounts all the morning, and at noon all of us to Kent’s, at the Three
Tuns’ Tavern, and there dined well at Mr. Gawden’s charge; and, there
the constable of the parish did show us the picklocks and dice that were
found in the dead man’s pocket, and but 18d. in money; and a table-book,
wherein were entered the names of several places where he was to go; and
among others Kent’s house, where he was to dine, and did dine yesterday:
and after dinner went into the church, and there saw his corpse with
the wound in his left breast; a sad spectacle, and a broad wound, which
makes my hand now shake to write of it. His brother intending, it seems,
to kill the coachman, who did not please him, this fellow stepped in,
and took away his sword; who thereupon took out his knife, which was of
the fashion, with a falchion blade, and a little cross at the hilt like
a dagger; and with that stabbed him. So to the office again, very busy,
and in the evening to Sir Robert Viner’s, and there took up all my notes
and evened our balance to the 7th of this month, and saw it entered in
their ledger, and took a receipt for the remainder of my money as the
balance of an account then adjusted. Then to my Lord Treasurer’s, but
missed Sir Ph. Warwicke, and so back again, and drove hard towards
Clerkenwell,

     [At Newcastle House, Clerkenwell Close, the duke and duchess lived
     in great state.  The house was divided, and let in tenements in the
     eighteenth century.]

thinking to have overtaken my Lady Newcastle, whom I saw before us in
her coach, with 100 boys and girls running looking upon her but I could
not: and so she got home before I could come up to her. But I will get
a time to see her. So to the office and did more business, and then home
and sang with pleasure with my wife, and to supper and so to bed.