16th (Lord’s day). Up, and called on by several on business of the
office. Then to the office to look out several of my old letters to Sir
W. Coventry in order to the preparing for justifying this office in our
frequent foretelling the want of money. By and by comes Roger Pepys and
his son Talbot, whom he had brought to town to settle at the Temple,
but, by reason of our present stirs, will carry him back again with him
this week. He seems to be but a silly lad. I sent them to church this
morning, I staying at home at the office, busy. At noon home to dinner,
and much good discourse with him, he being mighty sensible of our misery
and mal-administration. Talking of these straits we are in, he tells me
that my Lord Arlington did the last week take up L12,000 in gold,
which is very likely, for all was taken up that could be. Discoursing
afterwards with him of our family he told me, that when I come to his
house he will show me a decree in Chancery, wherein there was twenty-six
men all housekeepers in the town of Cottenham, in Queene Elizabeth’s
time, of our name. He to church again in the afternoon, I staid at home
busy, and did show some dalliance to my maid Nell, speaking to her of
her sweetheart which she had, silly girle. After sermon Roger Pepys
comes again. I spent the evening with him much troubled with the
thoughts of the evils of our time, whereon we discoursed. By and by
occasion offered for my writing to Sir W. Coventry a plain bold letter
touching lack of money; which, when it was gone, I was afeard might give
offence: but upon two or three readings over again the copy of it, I was
satisfied it was a good letter; only Sir W. Batten signed it with me,
which I could wish I had done alone. Roger Pepys gone, I to the garden,
and there dallied a while all alone with Mrs. Markham, and then home to
my chamber and to read and write, and then to supper and to bed.