15th (Lord’s day). Up, and after long lying with pleasure talking with
my wife, and then up to look up and down our house, which will when our
upholster hath done be mighty fine, and so to my chamber, and there did
do several things among my papers, and so to the office to write down my
journal for 6 or 7 days, my mind having been so troubled as never to get
the time to do it before, as may appear a little by the mistakes I have
made in this book within these few days. At noon comes Mr. Shepley to
dine with me and W. Howe, and there dined and pretty merry, and so
after dinner W. Howe to tell me what hath happened between him and the
Commissioners of late, who are hot again, more than ever, about my Lord
Sandwich’s business of prizes, which I am troubled for, and the more
because of the great security and neglect with which, I think, my Lord
do look upon this matter, that may yet, for aught I know, undo him. They
gone, and Balty being come from the Downs, not very well, is come this
day to see us, I to talk with him, and with some pleasure, hoping that
he will make a good man. I in the evening to my Office again, to make
an end of my journall, and so home to my chamber with W. Hewer to settle
some papers, and so to supper and to bed, with my mind pretty quiet, and
less troubled about Deb. than I was, though yet I am troubled, I must
confess, and would be glad to find her out, though I fear it would be my
ruin. This evening there come to sit with us Mr. Pelling, who wondered
to see my wife and I so dumpish, but yet it went off only as my wife’s
not being well, and, poor wretch, she hath no cause to be well, God
knows.