22nd. Up, and W. Batelier’s Frenchman, a perriwigg maker, comes and
brings me a new one, which I liked and paid him for: a mighty genteel
fellow. So to the office, where sat all the morning, and at noon home to
dinner, and thence with wife and Deb. to Crow’s, and there did see some
more beds; and we shall, I think, pitch upon a camlott one, when all is
done. Thence sent them home, and I to Arundell House, where the first
time we have met since the vacation, and not much company: but here much
good discourse, and afterwards my Lord and others and I to the Devil
tavern, and there eat and drank, and so late, with Mr. Colwell, home by
coach; and at home took him with me, and there found my uncle Wight and
aunt, and Woolly and his wife, and there supped, and mighty merry. And
anon they gone, and Mrs. Turner staid, who was there also to talk of
her husband’s business; and the truth is, I was the less pleased to talk
with her, for that she hath not yet owned, in any fit manner of thanks,
my late and principal service to her husband about his place, which I
alone ought to have the thanks for, if they know as much as I do; but
let it go: if they do not own it, I shall have it in my hand to teach
them to do it. So to bed. This day word come for all the Principal
Officers to bring them [the Commissioners of Accounts] their patents,
which I did in the afternoon, by leaving it at their office, but am
troubled at what should be their design therein.