24th (Lord’s day). I up, at between two and three in the morning, and,
calling up my boy, and father’s boy, we set out by three o’clock, it
being high day; end so through the water with very good success, though
very deep almost all the way, and got to Brampton, where most of them
in bed, and so I weary up to my wife’s chamber, whom I find in bed, and
pretended a little not well, and indeed she hath those upon her, but
fell to talk and mightily pleased both of us, and upgot the rest, Betty
Turner and Willet and Jane, all whom I was glad to see, and very merry,
and got me ready in my new stuff clothes that I send down before me, and
so my wife and they got ready too, while I to my father, poor man, and
walked with him up and down the house--it raining a little, and the
waters all over Portholme and the meadows, so as no pleasure abroad.
Here I saw my brothers and sister Jackson, she growing fat, and, since
being married, I think looks comelier than before: but a mighty pert
woman she is, and I think proud, he keeping her mighty handsome, and
they say mighty fond, and are going shortly to live at Ellington of
themselves, and will keep malting, and grazing of cattle. At noon comes
Mr. Phillips and dines with us, and a pretty odd-humoured man he seems
to be; but good withal, but of mighty great methods in his eating and
drinking, and will not kiss a woman since his wife’s death. After dinner
my Lady Sandwich sending to see whether I was come, I presently took
horse, and find her and her family at chapel; and thither I went in to
them, and sat out the sermon, where I heard Jervas Fullwood, now their
chaplain, preach a very good and seraphic kind of sermon, too good for
an ordinary congregation. After sermon, I with my Lady, and my Lady
Hinchingbroke, and Paulina, and Lord Hinchingbroke, to the dining-room,
saluting none of them, and there sat and talked an hour or two, with
great pleasure and satisfaction, to my Lady, about my Lord’s matters;
but I think not with that satisfaction to her, or me, that otherwise
would, she knowing that she did design tomorrow, and I remaining all
the while in fear, of being asked to lend her some money, as I was
afterward, when I had taken leave of her, by Mr. Shepley, L100, which
I will not deny my Lady, and am willing to be found when my Lord comes
home to have done something of that kind for them, and so he riding to
Brampton and supping there with me he did desire it of me from my Lady,
and I promised it, though much against my will, for I fear it is as good
as lost. After supper, where very merry, we to bed, myself very weary
and to sleep all night.