25th. Up, and Sir D. Gawden with me betimes to confer again about this
business, and he gone I all the morning finishing our answer, which I
did by noon, and so to dinner, and W. Batelier with me, who is lately
come from Impington, beyond which I perceive he went not, whatever his
pretence at first was; and so he tells me how well and merry all are
there, and how nobly used by my cozen. He gone, after dinner I to work
again, and Gibson having wrote our answer fair and got Brouncker and
the rest to sign it, I by coach to White Hall to the Committee of the
Council, which met late, and Brouncker and J. Minnes with me, and there
the Duke of York present (but not W. Coventry, who I perceive do wholly
avoid to have to do publickly in this business, being shy of appearing
in any Navy business, which I telling him the other day that I thought
the King might suffer by it, he told me that the occasion is now so
small that it cannot be fatal to the service, and for the present it is
better for him not to appear, saying that it may fare the worse for his
appearing in it as things are now governed), where our answer was read
and debated, and some hot words between the Duke of York and Sir T.
Clifford, the first for and the latter against Gawden, but the whole put
off to to-morrowâ€™s Council, for till the King goes out of town the
next week the Council sits every day. So with the Duke of York and
some others to his closet, and Alderman Backewell about a Committee of
Tangier, and there did agree upon a price for pieces of eight at 4s.