22nd (Easter day). I up, and walked to the Temple, and there got a
coach, and to White Hall, where spoke with several people, and find by
all that Pen is to go to sea this year with this fleete; and they excuse
the Prince’s going, by saying it is not a command great enough for him.
Here I met with Brisband, and, after hearing the service at the King’s
chapel, where I heard the Bishop of Norwich, Dr. Reynolds, the old
presbyterian, begin a very plain sermon, he and I to the Queen’s chapel,
and there did hear the Italians sing; and indeed their musick did appear
most admirable to me, beyond anything of ours: I was never so well
satisfied in my life with it. So back to White Hall, and there met Mr.
Pierce, and adjusted together how we should spend to-morrow together,
and so by coach I home to dinner, where Kate Joyce was, as I invited
her, and had a good dinner, only she and us; and after dinner she and
I alone to talk about her business, as I designed; and I find her very
discreet, and she assures me she neither do nor will incline to the
doing anything towards marriage, without my advice, and did tell me that
she had many offers, and that Harman and his friends would fain have
her; but he is poor, and hath poor friends, and so it will not be
advisable: but that there is another, a tobacconist, one Holinshed, whom
she speaks well of, to be a plain, sober man, and in good condition,
that offers her very well, and submits to me my examining and inquiring
after it, if I see good, which I do like of it, for it will be best for
her to marry, I think, as soon as she can--at least, to be rid of this
house; for the trade will not agree with a young widow, that is a little
handsome, at least ordinary people think her so. Being well satisfied
with her answer, she anon went away, and I to my closet to make a few
more experiments of my notions in musique, and so then my wife and I to
walk in the garden, and then home to supper and to bed.