2nd. Up and betimes to the office, where I did much business, and
several come to me, and among others I did prepare Mr. Warren, and by
and by Sir D. Gawden, about what presents I have had from them, that
they may not publish them, or if they do, that in truth I received none
on the account of the Navy but Tangier, and this is true to the former,
and in both that I never asked any thing of them. I must do the like
with the rest. Mr. Moore was with me, and he do tell me, and so W.
Hewer tells me, he hears this morning that all the town is full of the
discourse that the Officers of the Navy shall be all turned out, but
honest Sir John Minnes, who, God knows, is fitter to have been turned
out himself than any of us, doing the King more hurt by his dotage and
folly than all the rest can do by their knavery, if they had a mind to
it. At noon home to dinner, where was Mercer, and very merry as I could
be with my mind so full of business, and so with my wife, her and the
girl, to the King’s house to see the “Virgin Martyr” again, which do
mightily please me, but above all the musique at the coming down of the
angel, which at this hearing the second time, do still commend me as
nothing ever did, and the other musique is nothing to it. Thence with
my wife to the ‘Change, and so, calling at the Cocke ale house, we home,
and there I settle to business, and with my people preparing my great
answer to the Parliament for the office about tickets till past 1 a
o’clock at night, and then home to supper and to bed, keeping Mr. Gibson
all night with me. This day I have the news that my sister was married
on Thursday last to Mr. Jackson; so that work is, I hope, well over.