14th. Up, and had a mighty mind to have seen or given her a little
money, to which purpose I wrapt up 40s. in paper, thinking to have given
her a little money, but my wife rose presently, and would not let me be
out of her sight, and went down before me into the kitchen, and come up
and told me that she was in the kitchen, and therefore would have me go
round the other way; which she repeating and I vexed at it, answered her
a little angrily, upon which she instantly flew out into a rage, calling
me dog and rogue, and that I had a rotten heart; all which, knowing that
I deserved it, I bore with, and word being brought presently up that she
was gone away by coach with her things, my wife was friends, and so all
quiet, and I to the Office, with my heart sad, and find that I cannot
forget the girl, and vexed I know not where to look for her. And more
troubled to see how my wife is by this means likely for ever to have her
hand over me, that I shall for ever be a slave to her--that is to say,
only in matters of pleasure, but in other things she will make [it] her
business, I know, to please me and to keep me right to her, which I will
labour to be indeed, for she deserves it of me, though it will be I fear
a little time before I shall be able to wear Deb, out of my mind. At the
Office all the morning, and merry at noon, at dinner; and after dinner
to the Office, where all the afternoon, doing much business, late. My
mind being free of all troubles, I thank God, but only for my thoughts
of this girl, which hang after her. And so at night home to supper, and
then did sleep with great content with my wife. I must here remember
that I have lain with my moher as a husband more times since this
falling out than in I believe twelve months before. And with more
pleasure to her than I think in all the time of our marriage before.