22nd. Up betimes, at it again with great content, and so to the Office,
where all the morning, and did fall out with W. Pen about his slight
performance of his office, and so home to dinner, fully satisfied that
this Office must sink or the whole Service be undone. To the office all
the afternoon again, and then home to supper and to bed, my mind being
pretty well at ease, my great letter being now finished to my full
content; and I thank God I have opportunity of doing it, though I know
it will set the Office and me by the ears for ever. This morning Captain
Cocke comes, and tells me that he is now assured that it is true, what
he told me the other day, that our whole Office will be turned out,
only me, which, whether he says true or no, I know not, nor am much
concerned, though I should be better contented to have it thus than
otherwise. This afternoon, after I was weary in my business of the
office, I went forth to the ‘Change, thinking to have spoke with Captain
Cocke, but he was not within. So I home, and took London-bridge in my
way; walking down Fish Street and Gracious Street, to see how very fine
a descent they have now made down the hill, that it is become very easy
and pleasant, and going through Leaden-Hall, it being market-day, I
did see a woman catched, that had stolen a shoulder of mutton off of a
butcher’s stall, and carrying it wrapt up in a cloth, in a basket. The
jade was surprised, and did not deny it, and the woman so silly, as to
let her go that took it, only taking the meat.