27th. In the morning up, but my mind troubled for the poor girle, with
whom I could not get opportunity to speak, but to the office, my mind
mighty full of sorrow for her, to the office, where all the morning, and
to dinner with my people, and to the office all the afternoon, and so at
night home, and there busy to get some things ready against to-morrowâ€™s
meeting of Tangier, and that being done, and my clerks gone, my wife did
towards bedtime begin to be in a mighty rage from some new matter that
she had got in her head, and did most part of the night in bed rant
at me in most high terms of threats of publishing my shame, and when I
offered to rise would have rose too, and caused a candle to be light to
burn by her all night in the chimney while she ranted, while the knowing
myself to have given some grounds for it, did make it my business to
appease her all I could possibly, and by good words and fair promises
did make her very quiet, and so rested all night, and rose with perfect
good peace, being heartily afflicted for this folly of mine that did
occasion it, but was forced to be silent about the girle, which I have
no mind to part with, but much less that the poor girle should be undone
by my folly. So up with mighty kindness from my wife and a thorough
peace, and being up did by a note advise the girle what I had done and
owned, which note I was in pain for till she told me she had burned it.
This evening Mr. Spong come, and sat late with me, and first told me of
the instrument called parallelogram,

     [This useful instrument, used for copying maps, plans, drawings, &c.
     either of the same size, or larger or smaller than the originals, is
     now named a pantograph.]

which I must have one of, shewing me his practice thereon, by a map of
England.