4th. Up, and to the office, where all the morning, and at noon home to
dinner, where Mr. Clerke, the solicitor, dined with me and my clerks.
After dinner I carried and set him down at the Temple, he observing to
me how St. Sepulchre’s church steeple is repaired already a good deal,
and the Fleet Bridge is contracted for by the City to begin to be built
this summer, which do please me mightily. I to White Hall, and walked
through the Park for a little ayre; and so back to the Council-chamber,
to the Committee of the Navy, about the business of fitting the present
fleete, suitable to the money given, which, as the King orders it, and
by what appears, will be very little; and so as I perceive the Duke of
York will have nothing to command, nor can intend to go abroad. But it
is pretty to see how careful these great men are to do every thing so
as they may answer it to the Parliament, thinking themselves safe in
nothing but where the judges, with whom they often advise, do say the
matter is doubtful; and so they take upon themselves then to be the
chief persons to interpret what is doubtful. Thence home, and all the
evening to set matters in order against my going to Brampton to-morrow,
being resolved upon my journey, and having the Duke of York’s leave
again to-day; though I do plainly see that I can very ill be spared now,
there being much business, especially about this, which I have attended
the Council about, and I the man that am alone consulted with; and,
besides, my Lord Brouncker is at this time ill, and Sir W. Pen. So
things being put in order at the Office, I home to do the like there;
and so to bed.

5th (Friday).

     [The rough notes for the journal from this time to the 17th of June
     are contained on five leaves, inserted in the book; and after them
     follow several pages left blank for the fair copy which was never
     made.]

At Barnet, for milk, 6d. On the highway, to menders of the highway, 6d.
Dinner at Stevenage, 5s. 6d.