12th (Friday). Up, finding our beds good, but lousy; which made us
merry. We set out, the reckoning and servants coming to 9s. 6d.; my
guide thither, 2s.; coachman, advanced, 10s. So rode a very good way,
led to my great content by our landlord to Philips-Norton, with great
pleasure, being now come into Somersetshire; where my wife and Deb.
mightily joyed thereat,--[They were natives of that county.-B.]--I
commending the country, as indeed it deserves. And the first town we
came to was Brekington, where, we stopping for something for the horses,
we called two or three little boys to us, and pleased ourselves with
their manner of speech, and did make one of them kiss Deb., and another
say the Lordâ€™s Prayer (hallowed be thy kingdom come). At Philips-Norton
I walked to the Church, and there saw a very ancient tomb of some Knight
Templar, I think; and here saw the tombstone whereon there were only two
heads cut, which, the story goes, and credibly, were two sisters, called
the Fair Maids of Foscott, that had two bodies upward and one belly, and
there lie buried. Here is also a very fine ring of six bells, and they
mighty tuneable. Having dined very well, 10s., we come before night to
the Bath; where I presently stepped out with my landlord, and saw the
baths, with people in them. They are not so large as I expected, but
yet pleasant; and the town most of stone, and clean, though the streets
generally narrow. I home, and being weary, went to bed without supper;
the rest supping.