19th (Lord’s day). My wife the last night very ill of those, and waked
me early, and hereupon I up and to church, where a dull sermon by our
lecturer, and so home to dinner in my wife’s chamber, which she is a
little better. Then after dinner with Captain Perryman down to Redriffe,
and so walked to Deptford, where I sent for Mr. Shish out of the Church
to advise about my vessel, “The Maybolt,” and I do resolve to sell,
presently, for any thing rather than keep her longer, having already
lost L100 in her value, which I was once offered and refused, and
the ship left without any body to look to her, which vexes me. Thence
Perryman and I back again, talking of the great miscarriages in the
Navy, and among the principal that of having gentlemen commanders. I
shall hereafter make use of his and others’ help to reckon up and put
down in writing what is fit to be mended in the Navy after all our sad
experience therein. So home, and there sat with my wife all the evening,
and Mr. Pelting awhile talking with us, who tells me that my Lord
Shrewsbury is likely to do well, after his great wound in the late
dwell. He gone, comes W. Hewer and supped with me, and so to talk
of things, and he tells me that Mr. Jessop is made Secretary to the
Commissions of Parliament for Accounts, and I am glad, and it is pretty
to see that all the Cavalier party were not able to find the Parliament
nine Commissioners, or one Secretary, fit for the business. So he gone,
I to read a little in my chamber, and so to bed.