21st. Lay pretty long talking with content with my wife about our
coach and things, and so to the office, where Sir D. Gawden was to do
something in his accounts. At noon to dinner to Mr. Batelier’s, his
mother coming this day a-housewarming to him, and several friends of
his, to which he invited us. Here mighty merry, and his mother the same;
I heretofore took her for a gentlewoman, and understanding. I rose from
table before the rest, because under an obligation to go to my Lord
Brouncker’s, where to meet several gentlemen of the Royal Society, to go
and make a visit to the French Embassador Colbert, at Leicester House,
he having endeavoured to make one or two to my Lord Brouncker, as our
President, but he was not within, but I come too late, they being gone
before: but I followed to Leicester House; but they are gore in and up
before me; and so I away to the New Exchange, and there staid for my
wife, and she come, we to Cow Lane, and there I shewed her the coach
which I pitch on, and she is out of herself for joy almost. But the man
not within, so did nothing more towards an agreement, but to Mr. Crow’s
about a bed, to have his advice, and so home, and there had my wife to
read to me, and so to supper and to bed. Memorandum: that from Crow’s,
we went back to Charing Cross, and there left my people at their
tailor’s, while I to my Lord Sandwich’s lodgings, who come to town the
last night, and is come thither to lye: and met with him within: and
among others my new cozen Creed, who looks mighty soberly; and he and I
saluted one another with mighty gravity, till we come to a little more
freedom of talk about it. But here I hear that Sir Gilbert Pickering
is lately dead, about three days since, which makes some sorrow there,
though not much, because of his being long expected to die, having been
in a lethargy long. So waited on my Lord to Court, and there staid and
saw the ladies awhile: and thence to my wife, and took them up; and so
home, and to supper and bed.