9th. Up betimes, and anon with Sir W. Warren, who come to speak with me,
by coach to White Hall, and there met Lord Brouncker: and he and I to
the Commissioners of the Treasury, where I find them mighty kind to
me, more, I think, than was wont. And here I also met Colvill, the
goldsmith; who tells me, with great joy, how the world upon the ‘Change
talks of me; and how several Parliamentmen, viz., Boscawen and Major
[Lionel] Walden, of Huntingdon, who, it seems, do deal with him, do say
how bravely I did speak, and that the House was ready to have given
me thanks for it; but that, I think, is a vanity. Thence I with Lord
Brouncker, and did take up his mistress, Williams, and so to the
‘Change, only to shew myself, and did a little business there, and so
home to dinner, and then to the office busy till the evening, and then
to the Excize Office, where I find Mr. Ball in a mighty trouble that he
is to be put out of his place at Midsummer, the whole Commission being
to cease, and the truth is I think they are very fair dealing men, all
of them. Here I did do a little business, and then to rights home, and
there dispatched many papers, and so home late to supper and to bed,
being eased of a great many thoughts, and yet have a great many more to
remove as fast as I can, my mind being burdened with them, having been
so much employed upon the public business of the office in their defence
before the Parliament of late, and the further cases that do attend it.