7th. Up, and to the office, where all the morning. At noon home to
dinner, and thither I sent for Mercer to dine with me, and after dinner
she and I called Mrs. Turner, and I carried them to the Duke of York’s
house, and there saw “The Man’s the Master,” which proves, upon my
seeing it again, a very good play. Thence called Knepp from the King’s
house, where going in for her, the play being done, I did see Beck
Marshall come dressed, off of the stage, and looks mighty fine, and
pretty, and noble: and also Nell, in her boy’s clothes, mighty pretty.
But, Lord! their confidence! and how many men do hover about them as
soon as they come off the stage, and how confident they are in their
talk! Here I did kiss the pretty woman newly come, called Pegg, that was
Sir Charles Sidly’s mistress, a mighty pretty woman, and seems, but is
not, modest. Here took up Knepp into our coach, and all of us with her
to her lodgings, and thither comes Bannister with a song of hers, that
he hath set in Sir Charles Sidly’s play for her, which is, I think, but
very meanly set; but this he did, before us, teach her, and it being but
a slight, silly, short ayre, she learnt it presently. But I did get him
to prick me down the notes of the Echo in “The Tempest,” which pleases
me mightily. Here was also Haynes, the incomparable dancer of the King’s
house, and a seeming civil man, and sings pretty well, and they gone, we
abroad to Marrowbone, and there walked in the garden, the first time I
ever was there; and a pretty place it is, and here we eat and drank and
stayed till 9 at night, and so home by moonshine.... And so set Mrs.
Knepp at her lodging, and so the rest, and I home talking with a great
deal of pleasure, and so home to bed.