3rd (Lord’s day). Up, and to church, where I saw Sir A. Rickard, though
he be under the Black Rod, by order of the Lords’ House, upon the
quarrel between the East India Company and Skinner, which is like to
come to a very great heat between the two Houses. At noon comes Mr.
Mills and his wife, and Mr. Turner and his wife, by invitation to
dinner, and we were mighty merry, and a very pretty dinner, of my
Bridget and Nell’s dressing, very handsome. After dinner to church
again.... So home and with Sir W. Pen took a hackney, and he and I to
Old Street, to a brew-house there, to see Sir Thomas Teddiman, who is
very ill in bed of a fever, got, I believe, by the fright the Parliament
have put him into, of late. But he is a good man, a good seaman, and
stout. Thence Pen and I to Islington, and there, at the old house, eat,
and drank, and merry, and there by chance giving two pretty fat boys
each of them a cake, they proved to be Captain Holland’s children, whom
therefore I pity. So round by Hackney home, having good discourse, he
[Pen] being very open to me in his talk, how the King ought to dissolve
this Parliament, when the Bill of Money is passed, they being never
likely to give him more; how he [the King] hath great opportunity of
making himself popular by stopping this Act against Conventicles; and
how my Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, if the Parliament continue,
will undoubtedly fall, he having managed that place with so much
self-seeking, and disorder, and pleasure, and some great men are
designing to overthrow [him], as, among the rest, my Lord Orrery; and
that this will try the King mightily, he being a firm friend to my Lord
Lieutenant. So home; and to supper a little, and then to bed, having
stepped, after I come home, to Alderman Backewell’s about business, and
there talked a while with him and his wife, a fine woman of the country,
and how they had bought an estate at Buckeworth, within four mile of
Brampton.