10th. Up, and by water to White Hall, and there to Sir W. Coventry’s
house, where I staid in his dining-room two hours thinking to speak with
him, but I find Garraway and he are private, which I am glad of, Captain
Cocke bringing them this day together. Cocke come out and talked to me,
but it was too late for me to stay longer, and therefore to the Treasury
chamber, where the rest met, and W. Coventry come presently after. And
we spent the morning in finishing the Victualler’s contract, and so I by
water home, and there dined with me Batelier and his wife, and Mercer,
and my people, at a good venison-pasty; and after dinner I and W. Howe,
who come to see me, by water to the Temple, and met our four women, my
wife, M. Batelier, Mercer, and Deb., at the Duke’s play-house, and there
saw “The Maid in the Mill,” revived--a pretty, harmless old play. Thence
to Unthanke’s, and ‘Change, where wife did a little business, while
Mercer and I staid in the coach; and, in a quarter of an hour, I taught
her the whole Larke’s song perfectly, so excellent an eare she hath.
Here we at Unthanke’s ‘light, and walked them to White Hall, my wife
mighty angry at it, and did give me ill words before Batelier, which
vexed me, but I made no matter of it, but vexed to myself. So landed
them, it being fine moonshine, at the Bear, and so took water to the
other side, and home. I to the office, where a child is laid at Sir J.
Minnes’s door, as there was one heretofore. So being good friends again,
my wife seeking, it, by my being silent I overcoming her, we to bed.