6th. Up, and presently my wife up with me, which she professedly now do
every day to dress me, that I may not see Willet, and do eye me, whether
I cast my eye upon her, or no; and do keep me from going into the room
where she is among the upholsters at work in our blue chamber. So abroad
to White Hall by water, and so on for all this day as I have by mistake
set down in the fifth day after this mark.

     [In the margin here is the following: “Look back one leaf
     for my mistake.”]

In the room of which I should have said that I was at the office all the
morning, and so to dinner, my wife with me, but so as I durst not look
upon the girle, though, God knows, notwithstanding all my protestations
I could not keep my mind from desiring it. After dinner to the office
again, and there did some business, and then by coach to see Roger Pepys
at his lodgings, next door to Arundell House, a barber’s; and there I
did see a book, which my Lord Sandwich hath promised one to me of, “A
Description of the Escuriall in Spain;” which I have a great desire to
have, though I took it for a finer book when he promised it me. With him
to see my cozen Turner and The., and there sat and talked, they being
newly come out of the country; and here pretty merry, and with The. to
shew her a coach at Mr. Povy’s man’s, she being in want of one, and so
back again with her, and then home by coach, with my mind troubled and
finding no content, my wife being still troubled, nor can be at peace
while the girle is there, which I am troubled at on the other side.
We past the evening together, and then to bed and slept ill, she being
troubled and troubling me in the night with talk and complaints upon the
old business. This is the day’s work of the 5th, though it stands under
the 6th, my mind being now so troubled that it is no wonder that I fall
into this mistake more than ever I did in my life before.