29th. Up, and all the morning at the Office, where the Duke of York’s
long letter was read, to their great trouble, and their suspecting me to
have been the writer of it. And at noon comes, by appointment, Harris to
dine with me and after dinner he and I to Chyrurgeon’s-hall, where they
are building it new, very fine; and there to see their theatre; which
stood all the fire, and, which was our business, their great picture of
Holben’s, thinking to have bought it, by the help of Mr. Pierce, for a
little money: I did think to give L200 for it, it being said to be worth
L1000; but it is so spoiled that I have no mind to it, and is not a
pleasant, though a good picture. Thence carried Harris to his playhouse,
where, though four o’clock, so few people there at “The Impertinents,”
 as I went out; and do believe they did not act, though there was my Lord
Arlington and his company there. So I out, and met my wife in a coach,
and stopped her going thither to meet me; and took her, and Mercer,
and Deb., to Bartholomew Fair, and there did see a ridiculous, obscene
little stage-play, called “Marry Andrey;” a foolish thing, but seen by
every body; and so to Jacob Hall’s dancing of the ropes; a thing worth
seeing, and mightily followed, and so home and to the office, and then
to bed. Writing to my father to-night not to unfurnish our house in the
country for my sister, who is going to her own house, because I think I
may have occasion myself to come thither; and so I do, by our being put
out of the Office, which do not at all trouble me to think of.