20th. Up, and to the Tower, to W. Coventry, and there walked with him
alone, on the Stone Walk, till company come to him; and there about the
business of the Navy discoursed with him, and about my Lord Chancellor
and Treasurer; that they were against the war [with the Dutch] at first,
declaring, as wise men and statesmen, at first to the King, that they
thought it fit to have a war with them at some time or other, but that
it ought not to be till we found the Crowns of Spain and France together
by the Bares, the want of which did ruin our war. But then he told me
that, a great deal before the war, my Lord Chancellor did speak of a war
with some heat, as a thing to be desired, and did it upon a belief
that he could with his speeches make the Parliament give what money he
pleased, and do what he would, or would make the King desire; but he
found himself soon deceived of the Parliament, they having a long time
before his removal been cloyed with his speeches and good words, and
were come to hate him. Sir W. Coventry did tell me it, as the wisest
thing that ever was said to the King by any statesman of his time, and
it was by my Lord Treasurer that is dead, whom, I find, he takes for a
very great statesman--that when the King did shew himself forward for
passing the Act of Indemnity, he did advise the King that he would hold
his hand in doing it, till he had got his power restored, that had been
diminished by the late times, and his revenue settled in such a manner
as he might depend on himself, without resting upon Parliaments,--and
then pass it. But my Lord Chancellor, who thought he could have the
command of Parliaments for ever, because for the Kingâ€™s sake they were
awhile willing to grant all the King desired, did press for its being
done; and so it was, and the King from that time able to do nothing with
the Parliament almost. Thence to the office, where sat all the forenoon,
and then home to dinner, and so to the office, where late busy, and so
home, mightily pleased with the news brought me to-night, that the King
and Duke of York are come back this afternoon, and no sooner come, but
a warrant was sent to the Tower for the releasing Sir W. Coventry;
which do put me in some hopes that there may be, in this absence, some
accommodation made between the Duke of York and the Duke of Buckingham
and; Arlington. So home, to supper, and to bed.