11th. Up, and to Sir W. Coventry, to the Tower, where I walked and
talked with him an hour alone, from one good thing to another: who tells
me that he hears that the Commission is gone down to the King, with a
blank to fill, for his place in the Treasury: and he believes it will be
filled with one of our Treasurers of the Navy, but which he knows not,
but he believes it will be Osborne. We walked down to the Stone Walk,
which is called, it seems, my Lord of Northumberlandâ€™s walk, being paved
by some one of that title, that was prisoner there: and at the end of
it, there is a piece of iron upon the wall, with, his armes upon it, and
holes to put in a peg, for every turn that they make upon that walk. So
away to the Office, where busy all the morning, and so to dinner, and so
very busy all the afternoon, at my Office, late; and then home tired,
to supper, with content with my wife, and so to bed, she pleasing me,
though I dare not own it, that she hath hired a chambermaid; but she,
after many commendations, told me that she had one great fault, and that
was, that she was very handsome, at which I made nothing, but let her
go on; but many times to-night she took occasion to discourse of her
handsomeness, and the danger she was in by taking her, and that she did
doubt yet whether it would be fit for her, to take her. But I did assure
her of my resolutions to have nothing to do with her maids, but in
myself I was glad to have the content to have a handsome one to look on.