8th. Up, and to the Office, and there comes Lead to me, and at last my
vizards are done, and glasses got to put in and out, as I will; and I
think I have brought it to the utmost, both for easiness of using and
benefit, that I can; and so I paid him 15s. for what he hath done now
last, in the finishing them, and they, I hope, will do me a great deal
of ease. At the Office all the morning, and this day, the first time,
did alter my side of the table, after above eight years sitting on that
next the fire. But now I am not able to bear the light of the windows in
my eyes, I do begin there, and I did sit with much more content than
I had done on the other side for a great while, and in winter the fire
will not trouble my back. At noon home to dinner, and after dinner all
the afternoon within, with Mr. Hater, Gibson, and W. Hewer, reading over
and drawing up new things in the Instructions of Commanders, which will
be good, and I hope to get them confirmed by the Duke of York, though
I perceive nothing will effectually perfect them but to look over the
whole body of the Instructions, of all the Officers of a ship, and make
them all perfect together. This being done, comes my bookseller, and
brings me home bound my collection of papers, about my Addresse to the
Duke of York in August, which makes me glad, it being that which shall
do me more right many years hence than, perhaps, all I ever did in my
life: and therefore I do, both for my own and the King’s sake, value it
much. By and by also comes Browne, the mathematical instrument maker,
and brings me home my instrument for perspective, made according to the
description of Dr. Wren’s, in the late Transactions; and he hath made
it, I think, very well, and that, that I believe will do the thing, and
therein gives me great content; but have I fear all the content that
must be received by my eyes is almost lost. So to the office, and there
late at business, and then home to supper and to bed.