9th. Up, and by water to White Hall, end there, with the Board, attended
the Duke of York, and Sir Thomas Allen with us (who come to town
yesterday); and it is resolved another fleete shall go to the Streights
forthwith, and he command it. But his coming home is mighty hardly
talked on by the merchants, for leaving their ships there to the mercy
of the Turks: but of this more in my White-Booke. Thence out, and
slipped out by water to Westminster Hall and there thought to have spoke
with Mrs. Martin, but she was not there, nor at home. So back again, and
with W. Hewer by coach home and to dinner, and then to the office, and
out again with W. Hewer to the Excise-Office, and to several places;
among others, to Mr. Faythorne’s, to have seen an instrument which he
was said to have, for drawing perspectives, but he had it not: but here
I did see his work-house, and the best things of his doing he had by
him, and so to other places among others to Westminster Hall, and I took
occasion to make a step to Mrs. Martin’s, the first time I have been
with her since her husband went last to sea, which is I think a year
since.... But, Lord! to hear how sillily she tells the story of her
sister Doll’s being a widow and lately brought to bed; and her husband,
one Rowland Powell, drowned, sea with her husband, but by chance dead at
sea, cast When God knows she hath played the whore, and forced at this
time after she was brought to bed, this story. Thence calling at several
places by the home, and there to the office, and then home to supper and
to bed.