19th. Up, and with Tom (whom, with his wife, I, and my wife, had this
morning taken occasion to tell that I did intend to give him L40 for
himself, and L20 to his wife, towards their setting out in the world,
and that my wife would give her L20 more, that she might have as much to
begin with as he) by coach to White Hall, and there having set him work
in the Robe Chamber, to write something for me, I to Westminster Hall,
and there walked from 10 o’clock to past 12, expecting to have met Deb.,
but whether she had been there before, and missing me went away, or is
prevented in coming, and hath no mind to come to me (the last whereof,
as being most pleasing, as shewing most modesty, I should be most glad
of), I know not, but she not then appearing, I being tired with walking
went home, and my wife being all day at Jane’s, helping her, as she
said, to cut out linen and other things belonging to her new condition,
I after dinner out again, and, calling for my coach, which was at the
coachmaker’s, and hath been for these two or three days, to be new
painted, and the window-frames gilt against May-day, went on with my
hackney to White Hall, and thence by water to Westminster Hall, and
there did beckon to Doll Lane, now Mrs. Powell, as she would have
herself called, and went to her sister Martin’s lodgings, the first time
I have been there these eight or ten months, I think, and her sister
being gone to Portsmouth to her Y husband, I did stay and talk and drink
with Doll.... So away:; and to White Hall, and there took my own coach,
which was now come, and so away home, and there to do business, and my
wife being come home we to talk and to sup, there having been nothing
yet like discovery in my wife of what hath lately passed with me about
Deb., and so with great content to bed