26th. To White Hall, where all the morning. Dined with Mr. Chevins, with
Alderman Backewell, and Spragg. The Court full of the news from
Captain Hubbert, of “The Milford,” touching his being affronted in
the Streights, shot at, and having eight men killed him by a French
man-of-war, calling him “English dog,” and commanding him to strike,
which he refused, and, as knowing himself much too weak for him, made
away from him. The Queen, as being supposed with child, fell ill, so as
to call for Madam Nun, Mr. Chevins’s sister, and one of her women, from
dinner from us; this being the last day of their doubtfulness touching
her being with child; and they were therein well confirmed by her
Majesty’s being well again before night. One Sir Edmund Bury Godfry, a
woodmonger and justice of Peace in Westminster, having two days since
arrested Sir Alexander Frazier for about L30 in firing, the bailiffs
were apprehended, committed to the porter’s lodge, and there, by the
King’s command, the last night severely whipped; from which the justice
himself very hardly escaped, to such an unusual degree was the King
moved therein. But he lies now in the lodge, justifying his act, as
grounded upon the opinion of several of the judges, and, among others,
my Lord Chief-Justice; which makes the King very angry with the
Chief-Justice, as they say; and the justice do lie and justify his act,
and says he will suffer in the cause for the people, and do refuse to
receive almost any nutriment. The effects of it may be bad to the Court.
Expected a meeting of Tangier this afternoon, but failed. So home, met
by my wife at Unthanke’s.