30th. Up, and to Sir W. Coventry, to see and discourse with him; and
he tells me that he hath lately been with my Lord Keeper, and had much
discourse about the Navy; and particularly he tells me that he finds
they are divided touching me and my Lord Brouncker; some are for
removing; and some for keeping us. He told my Lord Keeper that it would
cost the King L10,000 before he hath made another as fit to serve him
in the Navy as I am; which, though I believe it is true, yet I am much
pleased to have that character given me by W. Coventry, whatever be the
success of it. But I perceive they do think that I know too much,
and shall impose upon whomever shall come next, and therefore must be
removed, though he tells me that Sir T. Clifford is inclined well enough
to me, and Sir T. Osborne; by what I have lately done, I suppose. This
news do a little trouble me, but yet, when I consider it, it is but
what I ought not to be much troubled for, considering my incapacity, in
regard to my eyes, to continue long at this work, and this when I think
of and talk with my wife do make me the less troubled for it. After
some talk of the business of the navy more with him, I away and to the
Office, where all the morning; and Sir W. Pen, the first time that he
hath been here since his being last sick, which, I think, is two or
three months; and I think will be the last that he will be here as one
of the Board, he now inviting us all to dine with him, as a parting
dinner, on Thursday next, which I am glad of, I am sure; for he is a
very villain. At noon home to dinner, where, and at the office, all the
afternoon, troubled at what I have this morning heard, at least my mind
full of thoughts upon it, and so at night after supper to bed.